[when writing articles here:.&& the lightning thief is a 2005 fantasy–adventure novel. it is based on greek mythology. it was the first young-adult book written by author rick riordan. it is the first book in the percy jackson & the olympians series. the series is about the adventures of modern 12-year-old percy jackson after he discovers he is a demigod (half-human.&& half-god). percy is the son of a mortal woman and the greek god poseidon. percy and his friends go on a quest (adventure) so that a war between the greek gods zeus.&& poseidon and hades will not happen..&& riordan finished writing his manuscript in 1994. the lightning thief was first bought by bantam books in 1997. bantam sold it to miramax books. miramax published it on june 28.&& 2005. the book sold more than 1.2 million copies in the next four years. the book won many awards. in 2007.&& it was on the new york times best seller list for childrens books. it was one of the young adult library services associations best books for young adults. it was made into a movie named percy jackson & the olympians: the lightning thief. the movie was first shown in the united states on february 12.&& 2010. the sequel to this book is the sea of monsters..&& .&& from a collection of wikipedias articles:.&& .&& see the pages of the wikimedia foundation governance wiki.&& too..&& english  • .&& العربية (arabic)  •  مصرى (egyptian arabic)  •  deutsch (german)  •  español (spanish)  •  français (french)  •  italiano (italian)  •  日本語 (japanese)  •  nederlands (dutch)  •  polski (polish)  •  português (portuguese)  •  русский (russian)  •  svenska (swedish)  •  українська (ukrainian)  •  tiếng việt (vietnamese)  •  winaray (waray)  •  中文 (chinese).&& català (catalan)  •  فارسی (persian)  •  suomi (finnish)  •  bahasa indonesia (indonesian)  •  한국어 (korean)  •  norsk (norwegian)  •  српски / srpski (serbian).&& simple english  •  asturianu (asturian)  •  azərbaycanca (azerbaijani)  •  تۆرکجه (south azerbaijani)  •  беларуская (belarusian)  •  български (bulgarian)  •  বাংলা (bangla)  •  нохчийн (chechen)  •  čeština (czech)  •  cymraeg (welsh)  •  dansk (danish)  •  ελληνικά (greek)  •  esperanto (esperanto)  •  eesti (estonian)  •  euskara (basque)  •  galego (galician)  •  עברית (hebrew)  •  हिन्दी (hindi)  •  hrvatski (croatian)  •  magyar (hungarian)  •  հայերեն (armenian)  •  ქართული (georgian)  •  қазақша (kazakh)  •  latina (latin)  •  lietuvių (lithuanian)  •  latviešu (latvian)  •  minangkabau (minangkabau)  •  македонски (macedonian)  •  bahasa melayu (malay)  •  မြန်မာဘာသာ (burmese)  •  norsk nynorsk (norwegian nynorsk)  •  română (romanian)  •  srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски (serbo-croatian)  •  slovenčina (slovak)  •  slovenščina (slovenian)  •  தமிழ் (tamil)  •  тоҷикӣ (tajik)  •  ไทย (thai)  •  türkçe (turkish)  •  татарча/tatarça (tatar)  •  اردو (urdu)  •  oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча (uzbek)  •  volapük (volapük)  •  粵語 (cantonese)  •  bân-lâm-gú (chinese (min nan)).&& list of all wikipedias – languages working together – start a wikipedia for a new language][main page, welcome to wikipedia,, about wikipedia, selected article, did you know..., knowledge groups, sister projects, other languages, navigation menu, search]wikipedia[][use basic english words and shorter sentences. this allows people to understand complex terms or phrases., write good pages. the best encyclopedia pages have useful, well-written information., use the pages to learn and teach. these pages can help people learn english. you can also use them to make a new wikipedia to help other people., simple does not mean short. writing in simple english means that simple words are used. it does not mean readers want basic information. articles do not have to be short to be simple; expand articles, add details, but use basic vocabulary., be bold! your article does not have to be perfect, because other editors will fix it and make it better. and most importantly, do not be afraid to start and make articles better yourself., ... that some argentines believe that by saying the name of president carlos menem (pictured) it brings them bad luck?, ... that the first sentō was built during the nara period in the 700s?, ... that hanger lane gyratory was voted the scariest junction in britain?, ... that the exact height of the hkakabo razi in myanmar is unknown?, ... that after the tunguska event, it took 20 years before an expedition reached the area where it happened?, main page, not logged in, talk, contributions, create account, log in, main page, talk, read, view source, view history, main page, simple start, simple talk, new changes, show any page, help, contact us, give to wikipedia, about wikipedia, what links here, related changes, upload file, special pages, permanent link, page information, cite this page, wikidata item, make a book, download as pdf, page for printing, wikimedia commons, mediawiki, meta-wiki, multilingual wikisource, wikispecies, wikidata, wikimania, wiktionary, afrikaans, alemannisch, العربية, aragonés, arpetan, asturianu, avañeẽ, aymar aru, বাংলা, беларуская, български, bosanski, català, cebuano, čeština, chamoru, chavacano de zamboanga, corsu, cymraeg, dansk, deutsch, diné bizaad, eesti, ελληνικά, english, español, esperanto, euskara, فارسی, français, frysk, furlan, gaeilge, galego, 한국어, հայերեն, हिन्दी, hrvatski, ido, igbo, bahasa indonesia, interlingua, íslenska, italiano, עברית, jawa, ქართული, kaszëbsczi, kiswahili, kreyòl ayisyen, ladino, latina, lëtzebuergesch, lingála, lombard, magyar, македонски, malti, māori, bahasa melayu, မြန်မာဘာသာ, nāhuatl, nederlands, nēhiyawēwin / ᓀᐦᐃᔭᐍᐏᐣ, नेपाली, 日本語, norsk bokmål, norsk nynorsk, occitan, plattdüütsch, polski, português, română, runa simi, русский, shqip, sicilianu, slovenčina, slovenščina, српски / srpski, srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски, suomi, svenska, tagalog, தமிழ், ไทย, türkçe, українська, اردو, tiếng việt, 文言, winaray, ייִדיש, yorùbá, 中文, this page was last changed on 22 march 2022, at 02:37., text is available under the creative commons attribution/share-alike license and the gfdl; additional terms may apply. see terms of use for details., privacy policy, about wikipedia, disclaimers, mobile view, developers, statistics, cookie statement, , ]