[influenza, or the flu, and the common cold can be tricky to tell apart. both are respiratory illnesses caused by viruses, and they share many symptoms., , , since colds and the flu are caused by viruses, rather than bacteria, antibiotics are not an effective treatment option., both the flu and colds affect the respiratory system, though flu symptoms are typically more severe than those of the common cold., “there are many different viruses that can cause a cold, but most of these viruses cause very similar cold symptoms,” says aaron e. glatt, md, chief of infectious diseases at south nassau communities hospital in oceanside, new york., symptoms that the common cold and flu share may include:, , "run-of-the-mill colds usually make you feel lousy but should not interfere with daily activities," says stephen russell, md, an associate professor of medicine at the university of alabama in birmingham., , learn more about cold and flu signs and symptoms, the flu is caused by influenza viruses, but many distinct viruses (most commonly rhinoviruses) can cause a cold., , , certain populations are more susceptible to getting a cold or the flu, including the very young, older adults, and people with a compromised immune system., factors that can increase your risk of becoming infected include:, , , , , , , women in their second or third trimester are particularly susceptible to complications from the flu. “we’re not exactly sure why, but there has always been a question of whether or not the immune system changes during pregnancy,” says laura riley, md, the chair of obstetrics and gynecology at weill cornell medicine and obstetrician-gynecologist in chief at newyork-presbyterian hospital in new york city., related: 8 ways to keep your immune system healthy, , , , , , , , there is no specific test to diagnose the common cold. if your symptoms are more severe, your doctor may order tests or x-rays to rule out certain illnesses, such as strep throat or pneumonia., , the duration of a cold or the flu varies depending on the virus involved and your immune system’s ability to fight off infection. that’s why the very young, the elderly, and people with chronic illnesses are most susceptible to viral infections and possible complications., “the best weapon we have is our own immune system,” says donald w. novey, md, a family and integrative medicine specialist in poulsbo, washington. good nutrition, adequate sleep and exercise, and low levels of stress can bolster the immune system. “a failure on any one of these four points can weaken the immune system and either prolong an existing cold or lead to more frequent ones,” dr. novey says., cold symptoms typically subside within 7 to 10 days, while the flu typically lasts three to seven days with severe symptoms subsiding after a few days. but some symptoms, like fatigue and cough, can linger for weeks., , related: how long does a cold or flu last?, there is no cure for either the flu or the common cold. there are over-the-counter options that can ease throat pain and cough, decongest the nose and sinuses, and lessen body aches and headaches., , , , related: the flu: self-treat, see a doctor, or go to the er?, , “the best tool to prevent the flu is getting the vaccine. it’s not perfect, but it’s the most effective thing we have,” says carol baker, md, a pediatric infectious disease specialist in houston., , most common colds are not severe, but they can worsen or lead to health complications., “enteroviruses that are often the culprits in the common cold can cause brain lining inflammation that causes severe headaches, difficulty looking at bright lights, neck stiffness, high fever, and confusion,” says cameron wolfe, mbbs, an infectious-disease specialist at duke university school of medicine in durham, north carolina., if cold or flu symptoms persist or worsen, the patient may have a secondary or bacterial infection. that can lead to sinus or ear infections, bronchitis, and pneumonia. the flu can also worsen preexisting medical problems, such as triggering asthma attacks in people with asthma., , learn more about complications of cold and flu, , , , covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus sars-cov-2, and the flu are both contagious respiratory illnesses and share many symptoms, including fever or feeling feverish, chills, cough, difficulty breathing, fatigue, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, body aches, and headache. you might even wonder, based on your symptoms, whether a severe cold is covid-19., one difference in possible symptoms: people with covid-19 may experience a change or loss of taste or smell, which isn't a symptom of the flu. covid-19 symptoms can also take longer than flu symptoms before they appear after infection and people can be contagious for longer., , covid-19 vaccines are now approved for anyone 5 years and older., related: is it a cold, the flu, or covid-19?, , american college of obstetricians and gynecologists (acog), acog’s immunization for women program provides patients, including those who are pregnant, with up-to-date recommendations and guidelines on treating seasonal influenza and other vaccine-preventable diseases. this trusted source also provides a searchable ob-gyn directory., centers for disease control and prevention (cdc), the cdc’s website presents weekly updates on flu activity nationwide. the site details how the flu may be spreading in each state and which strains of the virus are most prominent. it also contains useful guidelines for the most current treatments and vaccinations., national foundation for infectious diseases (nfid), founded in 1973, the nfid is a nonprofit dedicated to educating the public and healthcare providers about infectious diseases. its influenza web page provides basic information about the flu and links to sections about influenza in vulnerable segments of the population, such as children and older adults., state health departments, thanks to this search function on the cdc's website, you can locate your state health department, which can then help you find direct access to your county’s health department. your local health department will likely provide updated information on flu activity in your area, as well as information on how to access vaccinations., world health organization (who), the who’s global influenza website provides worldwide surveillance information on flu outbreaks and what prevention efforts are taking place. it also provides information from its conferences regarding future strategies to combat the flu., cdc — vaccine safety, the cdc’s flu vaccine page provides up-to-date information on approved influenza vaccines, along with potential side effects., national vaccine information center, this independent nonprofit provides extensive information on vaccine science and includes research on the effectiveness of specific vaccines., vaccines.gov, this u.s. department of health and human services site educates the public on various vaccine-preventable illnesses, including influenza. the flu section of the site includes basic information about the flu vaccine and a search tool to help you find places to get vaccinated in your area., mayo clinic, this website offers information that will help you determine whether your symptoms are related to a cold and when you need to see a doctor, and offers preventive tips that may help you avoid getting sick., national library of medicine, the common cold section of the medlineplus website provides comprehensive information on the causes and symptoms of the common cold, as well as links to information on how to determine whether you are suffering from a cold, the flu, or an allergy. it also includes information on potential treatments and therapies., healthy children, this american academy of pediatrics site focuses on how to identify flu symptoms in your children, the potential treatments, and preventive tips., kidshealth — flu, this website’s flu section offers basic educational and preventive information on keeping your family healthy and how to treat a child’s flu symptoms., kidshealth — colds, the kidshealth site also has a page dedicated to providing general information on common cold treatments for kids and potential complications., fluview, the cdc’s fluview app allows you to track flu activity by region, which can also be helpful if you plan on traveling., zocdoc, type in your location, your reason for seeing a doctor, and your insurance carrier and zocdoc will help you book a doctor’s appointment in your area., find more apps to help you fight the flu in our article, 7 apps to help you fight the flu., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., officials report that the majority of cases are in people who haven’t gotten their flu shot., concerns about side effects, allergic reactions, and a rare immune disorder associated with the flu shot are keeping some people from getting vaccinated..., what’s the best place to get a flu shot — a doctor’s office, urgent care center, pharmacy, or someplace else? and can you get a flu shot for free? here..., no, the flu shot can’t give you the flu. here’s a look at the (many!) misconceptions people have about the flu vaccine., this year, experts are recommending you get vaccinated in september or october to guard against an early, and possibly nasty, flu season., scientists are developing a new kind of flu vaccine, inspired by the highly effective mrna covid-19 vaccines from pfizer and moderna., last year, flu season was barely a blip. here’s why that’s unlikely to happen again., when it comes to the flu shot, there are more choices than you might think., the actor-singer-songwriter talks to everyday health about how she and her husband, tom hanks, were diagnosed with covid-19 and why the experience inspired..., with illnesses topping 29 million and related deaths numbering 16,000, the flu remains a high-priority public health concern., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][what is the difference between cold and flu? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, common questions & answers, signs and symptoms of cold and flu, most recent in flu, health officials investigate large flu outbreak at university of michigan, the facts on flu shot side effects and risks, the flu shot: what you need to know, where to get a flu shot, causes and risk factors of cold and flu, age, season, weakened immune system, smoking, pregnancy, what types of flu are there?, influenza a, influenza b, influenza c, influenza d, how are cold and flu diagnosed?, editor’s picks, the facts on flu shot side effects and risks, 7 flu shot myths you should stop believing, best home remedies to fight the flu, no flu shot and now you have the flu: what to do?, duration of cold and flu, treatment and medication options for cold and flu, prevention of cold and flu, the flu shot: what you need to know, why proper hand-washing is essential during cold and flu season, complications of cold and flu, editor’s picks, your day-by-day guide to the common cold, is exercise good for the common cold?, should you feed a cold and starve a fever?, top 10 home remedies for the common cold, research and statistics: who gets cold and flu?, covid-19 and cold and flu, related conditions of cold and flu, what is the flu season like where you live?, resources we love, favorite organizations for essential information, best flu vaccination information, best information for colds, best resources for parents, best apps for combating the flu, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in flu, health officials investigate large flu outbreak at university of michigan, the facts on flu shot side effects and risks, where to get a flu shot, 7 flu shot myths you should stop believing, get a flu shot now or wait?, is an mrna flu shot on its way?, will we be walloped by flu season this year?, different types of flu vaccine and how to pick the right kind for you, rita wilson survived covid-19 — and it made her a flu-shot advocate, coronavirus may be in the spotlight, but flu poses a clear and present danger in u.s., what is tetanus? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, what is malaria? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, what is pneumonia? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention]what is the difference between cold and flu? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention | everyday health[learn more about cold and flu signs and symptoms, age, season, weakened immune system, smoking, pregnancy, related: , 8 ways to keep your immune system healthy, what types of flu are there?, influenza a, influenza b, influenza c, influenza d, related:, how long does a cold or flu last?, related: , the flu: self-treat, see a doctor, or go to the er?, prevention of cold and flu, learn more about complications of cold and flu, related: , is it a cold, the flu, or covid-19?, what is the flu season like where you live?, favorite organizations for essential information, american college of obstetricians and gynecologists (acog), centers for disease control and prevention (cdc), national foundation for infectious diseases (nfid), state health departments, world health organization (who), best flu vaccination information, cdc — vaccine safety, national vaccine information center, vaccines.gov, best information for colds, mayo clinic, national library of medicine, best resources for parents, healthy children, kidshealth — flu, kidshealth — colds, best apps for combating the flu, fluview, zocdoc][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, body aches, headache, sore throat, cough, nasal congestion, sneezing, asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, ear infections, sinus infections, strep throat, the everyday health flu map predicts flu severity county by county across the united states so you can plan ahead and take precautions to avoid the flu — both at home and in places where you plan to travel., by entering your zip code, you can find out what influenza conditions may be like in your county in the weeks ahead., common cold. symptoms and causes. mayo clinic. june 11, 2021., flu symptoms and complications. centers for disease control and prevention. september 21, 2021., cold versus flu. centers for disease control and prevention. september 16, 2021., fashner j, ericson k, werner s. treatment of the common cold in children and adults. american family physician. july 15, 2012., people at higher risk of flu complications. centers for disease control and prevention. october 12, 2021., flu season. centers for disease control and prevention. september 28, 2021., common colds: protect yourself and others. centers for disease control and prevention. october 7, 2020., how (not) to catch a cold. houston methodist on health. december 21, 2020., facts about the common cold. american lung association. october 23, 2020., breathe easier — quit smoking. centers for disease control and prevention. september 30, 2021., types of influenza viruses. centers for disease control and prevention. november 18, 2019., past pandemics. centers for disease control and prevention. august 10, 2018., liu r, sheng z, huang c, et al. influenza d virus. current opinion in virology. october 2020., rapid influenza diagnostic tests. centers for disease control and prevention. october 25, 2016., key facts about influenza (flu). centers for disease control and prevention. august 26, 2021., common cold: diagnosis and treatment. mayo clinic. june 11, 2021., what you should know about flu antiviral drugs. centers for disease control and prevention. august 31, 2021., who should and who should not get a flu vaccine. centers for disease control and prevention. august 24, 2021., colds in children. pediatrics and child health. october 2005., similarities and differences between flu and covid-19. centers for disease control and prevention. june 7, 2021., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]