[javascript seems to be disabled in your browser. for the best experience on our site, be sure to turn on javascript in your browser., stay up to date with the latest delivery information and impact of covid 19..., have a query regarding your magazine subscription, delivery or anything else. please view our handy faq guide for us to help you address any questions you may have., for additional help with digital magazines please visit www.hearstmagazines.co.uk/digitalfaq, for additional help with subscriptions using tesco clubcard vouchers please visit www.hearstmagazines.co.uk/tescofaqs, if your query is not listed below please contact-us,  , if you've paid via a recurring payment method such as direct debit or continuous credit card, your payment will be taken automatically on the date stated on your order confirmation. if you've made a one-off payment, we will send you a renewal reminder before the end of your subscription. if you've purchased a gift subscription, no renewal reminders will be sent to the gift recipient until their subscription expires. to renew a subscription, click here. alternatively, you can type in the web address given on the renewal letter and renew online today or call our customer service team on (uk) 01858 438838 to take advantage of your exclusive offer., you can view these details by logging into your account. once logged in, you'll be able to see the status of your subscription, and update your personal details. if you've made a one-off payment for your subscription, we will notify you via email/letter once your subscription is due for renewal. if you've paid via direct debit your subscription will renew automatically., your customer number is the 12-digit number that is used to identify you and your subscription. if your number starts with zeros, please ensure you include these when providing your customer number. the number can be found above your name and address on your magazine envelope and on all correspondence that we send to you including confirmation emails and your magazine despatch emails. if you can't locate your customer number you can click here to request it., if you paid via direct debit and want to cancel your subscription please contact us. you may cancel at any time, however depending on when you cancel, you may continue to receive monthly issues until the end of your last payment period. you can also cancel via your bank and can call us at any time., if you paid via credit or debit card for a recurring subscription and want to cancel your subscription, you will need to cancel directly with us so please contact us. the cancellation will take effect after the last day of the current subscription period for the number of issues chosen, unless it's within the first 14 days of the order being placed (the cooling off period) where you will receive a full refund. if you wish to cancel before the automatic renewal is taken please ensure you cancel at least eight weeks before your last issue is due, so the cancellation process can be completed and no payment is taken. please note, you are unable to cancel your recurring credit/debit card payment with the bank., if a gift is included as part of the subscription offer, we reserve the right to request the return of the gift in the event of an early cancellation of the subscription., if you paid for your subscription by direct debit this may be cancelled at any time, however depending on when you cancel, you may continue to receive monthly issues until the end of your last payment period. to check when your last issue will be mailed, please visit your account., we make every effort to ensure all our issues arrive promptly, but sometimes they can be delayed or go missing. if your magazine doesn't arrive 5 days after the delivery date please contact us. delivery dates can be found here. if your issue hasn't arrived after 5 days, our customer service team will check your address details and arrange for a replacement copy to be sent to you straight away., if this occurs please contact us. one of our agents will arrange for a replacement copy to be sent to you straight away., your first issue would have been communicated to you at the time of ordering and in your order confirmation. please allow up to six weeks for delivery of the first subscription issue. to find out when your first issue will arrive please login to your account. once logged in, you'll be able to see the status of your subscription. we will also send you an email to let you know that your issue is on its way, if we have your email address. all future delivery dates can be viewed here., the easiest way to update your address and personal details is by logging into your account. please click here to login., check that you have selected the correct magazine that you are enquiring about. also make sure that you have selected the correct payer of the subscription, whether it is a subscription paid for by yourself or paid by someone else. check that you have entered your subscription number correctly. your customer number is the 12-digit number that is used to identify you and your subscription. if your number starts with zeros, please ensure you include these when providing your customer number. the number can be found above your name and address on your magazine envelope and on all correspondence that we send to you including confirmation emails and your magazine despatch emails. if you can't locate your customer number, your can click here to request it. if you are still unsuccessful logging in, please click here to contact our customer services team., please call our order line on 01858 438838 and they will help you with your subscription. please ensure you take a screenshot of the problem so we can resolve this for you., the free gift with a subscription is subject to change if a limited supply is available, as stipulated in the terms and conditions for all our offers. if we reach the limit for a particular gift we will endeavour to replace this with a similar item of the same value. if, however, you genuinely feel you have received the wrong gift please contact us., the free gift will always be sent to the person who purchased the subscription, so you can choose whether to give this to the recipient of the subscription or keep it yourself. please allow up to 30 days for delivery. if you don't receive the gift after 28 working days please contact us. we will send you an email when the gift has been dispatched from our warehouse., your magazine and gift will be sent separately. if you don't receive your gift after 28 working days of purchasing your subscription please contact us. we will send you an email notification when the gift has been despatched. if your gift is delayed by more than 28 days, we will contact you., all communication will be sent to you to pass on if you wish. please note, if you purchase a digital subscription or bundle, you will receive instructions in your confirmation email and you will need to forward this to your gift subscription recipient in order for them to activate their digital subscription. at the point of placing an order, you will also have the option to send an e-card to notify your recipient., if you would like to send a personalised e-card to the recipient, please click here. you will need to select the magazine you are gifting and select your chosen e-card design. you can choose to send the e-card immediately or schedule if for a set date. once the e-card has been sent, it will be delivered to the recipient's inbox on the chosen date., we accept credit/debit card, paypal and direct debit (uk only)., we will deduct one payment per term, for example, if you purchased a 12-month direct debit subscription we would take payment within 2 weeks of purchase and then again after 12 months. full details of your payment amount and frequency can be found in the manage my account area which can be accessed here., we will continue to renew your subscription, without interruption, until you tell us to stop. if there are any changes to the amount of your credit card payment, hearst uk will notify you 10 working days in advance of your account being debited or as otherwise agreed., if you ordered online, you will receive an instant email confirmation. your second confirmation email containing your start issue and payment schedule will be sent 24 hours after your order has been processed. if we don't hold an email address for you, we will send a letter confirmation within 7-10 working days. please note, once your first issue has been despatched which is usually between 2-6 weeks, you will receive a despatch notification by email. please contact us if you're having problems locating the confirmation email., we use your personal information provided (e.g. name, address, email address) to process your subscription order. hearst uk is committed to protecting your privacy and we abide by a strict privacy policy regarding the personal data we collect from users of our services. through our online subscription order form and over the telephone we will ask you about receiving details of our magazines and services and/or those of third parties which may be of interest to you. when we have your permission, we may disclose this information to selected service providers and agents for these purposes. please see our privacy policy on for further details., prices will be converted by your credit card company at the current rate of exchange., subscription offers are available to uk customers only, and not available for delivery outside of the uk (including roi). for overseas customers, we offer digital edition subscriptions via the app store., we currently cannot transfer to an overseas subscription. please contact us if you need further assistance., in the first instance, please refer to your confirmation email sent from tesco which should include a unique url and voucher code. please enter the voucher code in the box provided via this url www.hearstmagazines.co.uk/tesco. your voucher can only be redeemed online. if you are still experiencing problems, please contact us., you would have received a bespoke url with your voucher code. you'll need to simply visit that url and enter your unique code to activate your subscription. if you are still experiencing problems, please contact us., please contact us and we'll investigate this for you., it can take up to 5-7 working days for delivery. if your delivery hasn’t arrived within 10 days, please contact us., it can take up to 5-7 working days for the delivery to reach you. if your delivery hasn’t arrived within 10 days, please contact us., delivery takes approximately 7-10 working days from placing the order. you will be notified via email when your beauty/grooming box has been dispatched from our warehouse. if your delivery hasn’t arrived within 10 working days, please contact us. please note, if you've purchased during a pre-sale period, then your box will be despatched on the launch date as stated on the offer., if an item is damaged, please send a photograph of the item and packaging to beautyboxes@subscription.co.uk stating your full name, order number, and description of the damage. once we receive your request our customer service team will then be able to assist you and provide a suitable solution., if an item is missing, please email beautyboxes@subscription.co.uk stating your full name and a description of what you believe to be missing. once we receive your request our customer service team will then be able to assist you and provide a suitable solution., our grooming and beauty boxes are currently only available in the uk., if you're a subscriber and would like to opt-in for the pattern, please register here. you will automatically receive all future patterns with your issue of prima., you can buy the current and previous patterns by clicking here., please contact us and we will send you your pattern as soon as possible., hearst uk will email you about our products and services as well as discounts and offers, as detailed in our privacy notice.][great savings on magazine subscriptions and beauty boxes, frequently asked questions, our magazines, categories, digital subscriptions, manage my account, customer service, about us]faqs | hearst uk official online store[javascript seems to be disabled in your browser., stay up to date with the latest delivery information and impact of covid 19..., great savings on magazine subscriptions and beauty boxes, help & faqs, search, frequently asked questions, newsletter][compare products, manage my account, home, magazine subscriptions best cosmopolitan country living elle elle decoration esquire good housekeeping harper's bazaar house beautiful inside soap men's health prima red runner's world women's health, best, cosmopolitan, country living, elle, elle decoration, esquire, good housekeeping, harper's bazaar, house beautiful, inside soap, men's health, prima, red, runner's world, women's health, memberships men's health squad women's health collective, men's health squad, women's health collective, beauty boxes red luxe beauty box the award winners beauty box by harper's bazaar harper's bazaar luxury beauty box good housekeeping beauty box, red luxe beauty box, the award winners beauty box by harper's bazaar, harper's bazaar luxury beauty box, good housekeeping beauty box, gift shop best sellers magazines with free gifts for the trendsetter for the home lover for the outdoorsy type for the foodie for the fitness fanatic for the beauty lover gift box, best sellers, magazines with free gifts, for the trendsetter, for the home lover, for the outdoorsy type, for the foodie, for the fitness fanatic, for the beauty lover, gift box, single issues cosmopolitan single issues country living single issues elle single issues elle decoration single issues esquire single issues good housekeeping single issues harper's bazaar single issues house beautiful single issues men's health single issues prima single issues red single issues runner's world single issues women's health single issues, cosmopolitan single issues, country living single issues, elle single issues, elle decoration single issues, esquire single issues, good housekeeping single issues, harper's bazaar single issues, house beautiful single issues, men's health single issues, prima single issues, red single issues, runner's world single issues, women's health single issues, special editions country living specials elle decoration specials esquire specials good housekeeping specials house beautiful specials men's health specials prima specials runner's world specials women's health specials, country living specials, elle decoration specials, esquire specials, good housekeeping specials, house beautiful specials, men's health specials, prima specials, runner's world specials, women's health specials, prima patterns, holidays good housekeeping holidays country living holidays prima holidays red escapes women's health holidays, good housekeeping holidays, country living holidays, prima holidays, red escapes, women's health holidays, renewals, home, frequently asked questions, best, cosmopolitan, country living, elle, elle decoration, esquire, good housekeeping, harper's bazaar, house beautiful, inside soap, men's health, prima, red, runner's world, women's health, magazine subscriptions, men's health squad, beauty boxes, gift box, gift shop, single issues, special editions, prima patterns, holidays, print + digital packages, digital only subscriptions, sign in/register, renew my subscription, update my details, login, contact us, faq, delivery dates, about hearst magazines uk, privacy policy, terms and conditions, cookie policy, cookie settings, become a hearst affiliate, privacy policy, terms & conditions, cookie policy, cookie settings]