[javascript seems to be disabled in your browser. for the best experience on our site, be sure to turn on javascript in your browser., stay up to date with the latest delivery information and impact of covid 19..., 11 full-size luxury products worth £652 | yours for £140, looking to revamp your routine? our harper's bazaar award winners beauty box is the perfect place to start. featuring 11 full-size luxury products worth more than ever before (£652) from your favourite brands, including victoria beckham beauty, 111skin and face gym, we’ve sourced the most stand-out must-haves to bring you this luxe collection with everything you need to look and feel fabulous., treat yourself now for just £140 plus we've included free uk tracked delivery and an annual digital subscription to harper's bazaar., , your beauty box will be sent out tracked and arrive within 7-10 working days, please note at the moment we are unable to ship to the channel islands., here’s what’s included in your harper’s bazaar award winners beauty box:, 11 full-size luxury products worth £652 | yours for £140, , supérieur body nightly renewing serum, rrp £165, apply to body nightly. massage into skin until fully absorbed. use an spf during the day., aqua (water, eau), glycolic acid, butylene glycol, polymethylsilsesquioxane, lactic acid, sodium hydroxide, decapeptide-4, oligopeptide-24, sodium hyaluronate crosspolymer, hydrolyzed sodium hyaluronate, sodium hyaluronate, sodium acetylated hyaluronate, niacinamide pc, bacillus ferment, pentylene glycol, sodium oleate, glycine soja (soybean) oil, gluconolactone, hydrogenated lecithin, citrus depressa peel extract, glycerin, sodium pca, aloe barbadensis leaf juice, polyglyceryl-6 caprylate, polyglyceryl-4 caprate, ethylhexylglycerin, chondrus crispus extract, silica, parfum (fragrance), sodium benzoate, xanthan gum, phenoxyethanol, mica, disodium edta, potassium sorbate, citric acid, ci 77891 (titanium dioxide)., press & glow, rrp £25, twist the top half of the pump anti-clockwise until it clicks to activate. after cleansing in the morning and evening, hold a reusable cotton pad firmly over press & glow and push down 3-4 times. sweep the pad over the complexion, avoiding the delicate eye area. twist the pump clockwise until it clicks to avoid leakage. always do a patch test before first use. for press & glow refill, transfer the pump saved from your previous press & glow bottle onto the press & glow refill., aqua (water), gluconolactone, glycerin, hydrolyzed opuntia ficus-indica flower extract, euterpe oleracea fruit extract, aloe barbadensis (aloe vera) leaf juice, sodium hydroxide, sodium citrate, hydroxyacetophenone, phenoxyethanol, ethylhexylglycerin, potassium sorbate, sodium benzoate., multi-sculpt high-performance gua sha, rrp £45, use on clean face with 3-5 drops of your signature face oil to allow the tool to glide over the face. the sides of the neck should be avoided during pregnancy but other areas of the face can be worked on safely with light pressure. avoid working directly on open lesions or rash including eczema and psoriasis. do not use multi-sculpt over broken skin, broken veins, moles, cuts, bruises, or rosacea. do not use multi-sculpt over stage 4 acne or anything cystic, open, excreting puss, inflamed or tender to the touch. clean with warm, soapy water after each use, then keep dry., n/a, brow sculpt, rrp £16, apply a small amount of product onto your brows. screw the applicator back in after use and lift up the lid of the packaging to reveal the comb and brush. -use the comb to sculpt the brows into shape. - gently press down with the brush to set hairs in place.c5!, aqua, acrylates copolymer, paraffin, glycerin, butylene glycol, cera microcristallina, stearic acid, dimethicone, mineral oil (paraffinum liquidum), euphorbia cerifera (candelilla) wax, cetearyl alcohol, cetyl alcohol, phenoxyethanol, copernicia cerifera (carnauba) wax, polysorbate 80, triethanolamine, xanthan gum, tocopheryl acetate, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose , disodium edta., the clarity concentrate, rrp £125, place the opener onto the ampoule and break away from the body. dispense the solution into hands and apply onto the face and neck, patting gently in upward motions. be sure to use the entire ampoule. repeat day or night for 7 days alongside your usual skincare regime., aqua / water / eau, propylene glycol, glycerin, 1,2 hexanediol, sodium acrylates crosspolymer-2, propanediol, sulfur, willow / saule bark extract, acacia senegal gum, hydroxyacetophenone, lecithin, xanthan gum, hydroxyethylcellulose, glyceryl polyacrylate, cleome gynandra leaf extract, disodium edta, chlorella vulgaris extract, sodium nitrate, lactic acid. free from: fragrance, silicones, parabens and sulphates., evercalm™ redness relief serum, rrp £45, apply under moisturiser in the morning and under night cream in the evening., aqua (water), caprylic/capric triglyceride, glycerin, propanediol, coco-caprylate/caprate, squalane, cetyl alcohol, cetyl phosphate, crambe abyssinica seed oil, arginine, glycine soja (soybean) oil, glyceryl stearate, phenoxyethanol, sodium dehydroacetate, ethylhexylglycerin, inulin, vaccinium vitis-idaea seed oil, sclerotium gum, tocopherol, sodium hyaluronate, albatrellus confluens (mushroom) extract, alpha-glucan oligosaccharide, xanthan gum, sodium carboxymethyl betaglucan, biosaccharide gum-4, laminaria ochroleuca extract, citrus aurantium amara (bitter orange) flower extract, beta-carotene, xanthophylls, helianthus annuus (sunflower) seed oil, rosmarinus officinalis (rosemary) leaf extract, citric acid, lactic acid, sodium hydroxide, geraniol, linalool., pure kalahari melon oil , rrp £85, apply three to five drops to your fingertips. press gently across your face and finish by massaging your neck and décolleté. any remaining oil can be applied to your cuticles. use daily as a final step in your nightly skincare routine or mix in directly with your moisturiser for an instant hydration boost., citrullus lanatus (kalahari melon) seed oil., micellar reusable make-up remover eco pads, 3 micro fibre pads, rrp £8.99, 1. wet the eco pad with garnier micellar water. 2. glide over skin to gently yet effectively remove up to 100% make-up, dirt & impurities. 3. once finished, rinse eco pad under the tap using hand-soap and water or pop into your normal clothes wash for a deeper clean. lay flat to dry. each eco pad can be used up to 1000 times, helping to reduce cotton wool pad wastage., n/a, moisture & shine no plastic shampoo bar, rrp £14.95, wet hair. wet the bar and rub it on your hands until it lathers, then massage into your scalp and hair. or rub the bar directly on wet hair. rinse., disodium lauryl sulfosuccinate, cetearyl alcohol, triticum vulgare (wheat) starch, hydrogenated castor oil, glycerin, cocamidopropyl betaine, coco-glucoside, stearic acid, butyrospermum parkii (shea) butter, argania spinosa kernel oil, bentonite, parfum/fragrance, sodium chloride, illite, kaolin, aqua/water/eau., posh lipstick, rrp £34, apply a single swipe of posh on lips to hydrate and nourish, reapply for buildable medium coverage. apply straight from the bullet and start at the center of your mouth then smooth the color to the outer corners. for a fuller, more dimensional look, line lips with lip definer., ingredients / ingrédients : polyglyceryl-3 diisostearate, diisostearyl malate, bis-diglyceryl polyacyladipate-2, pentaerythrityl tetraisostearate, caprylic/capric triglyceride, synthetic wax, triisostearin, polybutene, euphorbia cerifera (candelilla) wax / candelilla cera / cire de candelilla, helianthus annuus (sunflower) seed wax, rosa damascena flower wax, dicalcium phosphate, simmondsia chinensis (jojoba) seed oil, rosa canina fruit oil, punica granatum flower extract, silica, tocopheryl acetate, persea gratissima (avocado) oil, cocos nucifera (coconut) oil, mica. may contain / peut contenir / (+/-) : titanium dioxide (ci 77891), iron oxides (ci 77491, ci 77492, ci 77499), yellow 5 lake (ci 19140), red 6 (ci 15850), red 7 (ci 15850), blue 1 lake (ci 42090), red 7 lake (ci 15850), yellow 10 lake (ci 47005), yellow 6 lake (ci 15985), red 28 lake (ci 45410), manganese violet (ci 77742)., the good c vitamin c serum, rrp £40, place one pipette length of the good c vitamin c serum into the palm of your hand and distribute over the face using gentle tapping motions. avoid the eye area. wait for approximately one minute until the serum is absorbed before applying dr. barbara sturm’s face cream. for daytime use, we recommend concluding your skincare routine with sun drops spf 50 for extra sun protection. also suitable for use in the evening as a night-time serum. the good c vitamin c serum can be mixed with other sturm serums, drops or moisturizers., vitamin c thd, kakadu plum, vitamin c glucoside, olive leaf extract, zinc, aloe vera, purslane extract, apricot kernel oil, hyaluronic acid, glycerin, sunflower oil, vitamin e., hearst uk will email you about our products and services as well as discounts and offers, as detailed in our privacy notice., sign up here and be the first to know when this offer is available again and other fantastic offers. or check out our latest offers here today.][great savings on magazine subscriptions and beauty boxes, the harper’s bazaar award winners beauty box, 11 full-size luxury products worth £652 | yours for £140, what's in the box, revive, medik8, face gym, refy, 111skin, ren, neo sephiri, garnier, wedo, victoria beckham beauty, dr. barbara sturm, our magazines, categories, digital subscriptions, manage my account, customer service, about us, sorry! this offer has now expired.]the harper’s bazaar award winners beauty box | hearst uk official online store[javascript seems to be disabled in your browser., stay up to date with the latest delivery information and impact of covid 19..., great savings on magazine subscriptions and beauty boxes, help & faqs, search, the harper’s bazaar award winners beauty box, 11 full-size luxury products worth £652 | yours for £140, victoria beckham beauty, 111skin, face gym, just £140, only £140, £512, free, your beauty box will be sent out tracked and arrive within 7-10 working days, here’s what’s included in your harper’s bazaar award winners beauty box:, révive, full-size, medik8, full-size, face gym, full-size, refy, full-size, 111skin, full-size, ren, full-size, nêô sephiri, full-size, garnier, full-size, wedo, full-size, victoria beckham beauty, full-size, dr. barbara sturm, full-size, , , 11 full-size luxury products worth £652 | yours for £140, newsletter][compare products, manage my account, home, magazine subscriptions best cosmopolitan country living elle elle decoration esquire good housekeeping harper's bazaar house beautiful inside soap men's health prima red runner's world women's health, best, cosmopolitan, country living, elle, elle decoration, esquire, good housekeeping, harper's bazaar, house beautiful, inside soap, men's health, prima, red, runner's world, women's health, memberships men's health squad women's health collective, men's health squad, women's health collective, beauty boxes red luxe beauty box the award winners beauty box by harper's bazaar harper's bazaar luxury beauty box good housekeeping beauty box, red luxe beauty box, the award winners beauty box by harper's bazaar, harper's bazaar luxury beauty box, good housekeeping beauty box, gift shop best sellers magazines with free gifts for the trendsetter for the home lover for the outdoorsy type for the foodie for the fitness fanatic for the beauty lover gift box, best sellers, magazines with free gifts, for the trendsetter, for the home lover, for the outdoorsy type, for the foodie, for the fitness fanatic, for the beauty lover, gift box, single issues cosmopolitan single issues country living single issues elle single issues elle decoration single issues esquire single issues good housekeeping single issues harper's bazaar single issues house beautiful single issues men's health single issues prima single issues red single issues runner's world single issues women's health single issues, cosmopolitan single issues, country living single issues, elle single issues, elle decoration single issues, esquire single issues, good housekeeping single issues, harper's bazaar single issues, house beautiful single issues, men's health single issues, prima single issues, red single issues, runner's world single issues, women's health single issues, special editions country living specials elle decoration specials esquire specials good housekeeping specials house beautiful specials men's health specials prima specials runner's world specials women's health specials, country living specials, elle decoration specials, esquire specials, good housekeeping specials, house beautiful specials, men's health specials, prima specials, runner's world specials, women's health specials, prima patterns, holidays good housekeeping holidays country living holidays prima holidays red escapes women's health holidays, good housekeeping holidays, country living holidays, prima holidays, red escapes, women's health holidays, renewals, home, the harper’s bazaar award winners beauty box, only £140 | worth £652 (saving £512), pay in 3 interest-free payments of £46.67 with paypal, commitment free - no subscription needed!, includes a free annual digital subscription to harper's bazaar uk, free uk tracked delivery, révive supérieur body nightly renewing serum, rrp £165.00 full-size, medik8 press & glow, rrp £25.00 full-size, face gym multi-sculpt high-performance gua sha, rrp £45.00 full-size, refy brow sculpt, rrp £16.00 full-size, 111skin the clarity concentrate, rrp £125.00 full-size, ren evercalm™ redness relief serum, rrp £45.00 full-size, nêô sephiri pure kalahari melon oil, rrp £85.00 full-size, garnier x3 micellar reusable make-up remover eco fibre pads, rrp £8.99 full-size, wedo moisture & shine no plastic shampoo bar, rrp £14.95 full-size, victoria beckham beauty posh lipstick, rrp £34 full-size, dr. barbara sturm the good c vitamin c serum, rrp £40 full-size, revive supérieur body nightly renewing serum, rrp £165 supérieur body nightly renewing serum as you sleep, this fast-acting body serum helps to renew skin and visibly diminish fine lines, leaving a firmer, more supple appearance. the powerhouse serum gently exfoliates, helps reduce the appearance of imperfections and smooths crepey skin. how to use apply to body nightly. massage into skin until fully absorbed. use an spf during the day. ingredients aqua (water, eau), glycolic acid, butylene glycol, polymethylsilsesquioxane, lactic acid, sodium hydroxide, decapeptide-4, oligopeptide-24, sodium hyaluronate crosspolymer, hydrolyzed sodium hyaluronate, sodium hyaluronate, sodium acetylated hyaluronate, niacinamide pc, bacillus ferment, pentylene glycol, sodium oleate, glycine soja (soybean) oil, gluconolactone, hydrogenated lecithin, citrus depressa peel extract, glycerin, sodium pca, aloe barbadensis leaf juice, polyglyceryl-6 caprylate, polyglyceryl-4 caprate, ethylhexylglycerin, chondrus crispus extract, silica, parfum (fragrance), sodium benzoate, xanthan gum, phenoxyethanol, mica, disodium edta, potassium sorbate, citric acid, ci 77891 (titanium dioxide)., medik8 press & glow, rrp £25 press & glow a toner but with a twist, the medik8 press & glow gently exfoliates, resurfaces, hydrates and smooths without irritating sensitive complexions, drying or leaving any sticky residue. how to use twist the top half of the pump anti-clockwise until it clicks to activate. after cleansing in the morning and evening, hold a reusable cotton pad firmly over press & glow and push down 3-4 times. sweep the pad over the complexion, avoiding the delicate eye area. twist the pump clockwise until it clicks to avoid leakage. always do a patch test before first use. for press & glow refill, transfer the pump saved from your previous press & glow bottle onto the press & glow refill. ingredients aqua (water), gluconolactone, glycerin, hydrolyzed opuntia ficus-indica flower extract, euterpe oleracea fruit extract, aloe barbadensis (aloe vera) leaf juice, sodium hydroxide, sodium citrate, hydroxyacetophenone, phenoxyethanol, ethylhexylglycerin, potassium sorbate, sodium benzoate., face gym multi-sculpt high-performance gua sha, rrp £45 multi-sculpt high-performance gua sha just like a studio workout at home, this next-gen tool was expertly designed by facegym to sculpt your complexion. the multi-sculpt has six different edges that help you lift, contour and reduce facial tension, releasing blockages in the muscles and aiding lymphatic drainage to depuff the skin and soften fine lines. instantly the skin is reinvigorated and healthy. for extra-soothing and cooling benefits, we suggest keeping your tool in the fridge. comes with a consciously sourced cotton pouch. how to use use on clean face with 3-5 drops of your signature face oil to allow the tool to glide over the face. the sides of the neck should be avoided during pregnancy but other areas of the face can be worked on safely with light pressure. avoid working directly on open lesions or rash including eczema and psoriasis. do not use multi-sculpt over broken skin, broken veins, moles, cuts, bruises, or rosacea. do not use multi-sculpt over stage 4 acne or anything cystic, open, excreting puss, inflamed or tender to the touch. clean with warm, soapy water after each use, then keep dry. ingredients n/a, refy brow sculpt, rrp £16 brow sculpt "brow sculpt allows you to shape and set hairs in place. the unique formula and versatile applicators will create the perfect brow. a uniquely developed concept and formula, the perfect balance between a wax and a gel. the addition of carnauba wax makes the sculpt soft and easy to apply but keeps brow hairs firmly in place. the double ended brush allows you to comb and shape your brows for a subtle everyday look, or brush up and set for a fuller brow. water resistant and flake-free, the sculpt will keep your brows set until washed out. vegan and cruelty free" how to use apply a small amount of product onto your brows. screw the applicator back in after use and lift up the lid of the packaging to reveal the comb and brush. -use the comb to sculpt the brows into shape. - gently press down with the brush to set hairs in place.c5! ingredients aqua, acrylates copolymer, paraffin, glycerin, butylene glycol, cera microcristallina, stearic acid, dimethicone, mineral oil (paraffinum liquidum), euphorbia cerifera (candelilla) wax, cetearyl alcohol, cetyl alcohol, phenoxyethanol, copernicia cerifera (carnauba) wax, polysorbate 80, triethanolamine, xanthan gum, tocopheryl acetate, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose , disodium edta., 111skin the clarity concentrate, rrp £125 the clarity concentrate a 7-day treatment program designed to clear the skin. the clarity concentrate works to reduce inflammation and the appearance of imperfections through a blend of active ingredients specifically formulated to address acne-prone and blemished complexion. -37% reduction in facial sebum* the ampoules can be used independently or combined over a two, three or four week period with those from other collections. how to use place the opener onto the ampoule and break away from the body. dispense the solution into hands and apply onto the face and neck, patting gently in upward motions. be sure to use the entire ampoule. repeat day or night for 7 days alongside your usual skincare regime. ingredients aqua / water / eau, propylene glycol, glycerin, 1,2 hexanediol, sodium acrylates crosspolymer-2, propanediol, sulfur, willow / saule bark extract, acacia senegal gum, hydroxyacetophenone, lecithin, xanthan gum, hydroxyethylcellulose, glyceryl polyacrylate, cleome gynandra leaf extract, disodium edta, chlorella vulgaris extract, sodium nitrate, lactic acid. free from: fragrance, silicones, parabens and sulphates., ren evercalm™ redness relief serum, rrp £45 evercalm™ redness relief serum "nature’s stand against sensitivity, this fast-acting white mushroom-powered serum is clinically proven to reduce redness after just 30 minutes, while soothing signs of sensitivity in seven days including, dryness, itching, discomfort, flakiness, tightness or burning sensations. formulated for sensitive and stressed skin, our new velvet-touch serum is proven to strengthen skin's moisture barrier and help protect from pollution, while it's packaged in a recyclable glass bottle, with a twist-lock pump containing 50% recycled plastic." how to use apply under moisturiser in the morning and under night cream in the evening. ingredients aqua (water), caprylic/capric triglyceride, glycerin, propanediol, coco-caprylate/caprate, squalane, cetyl alcohol, cetyl phosphate, crambe abyssinica seed oil, arginine, glycine soja (soybean) oil, glyceryl stearate, phenoxyethanol, sodium dehydroacetate, ethylhexylglycerin, inulin, vaccinium vitis-idaea seed oil, sclerotium gum, tocopherol, sodium hyaluronate, albatrellus confluens (mushroom) extract, alpha-glucan oligosaccharide, xanthan gum, sodium carboxymethyl betaglucan, biosaccharide gum-4, laminaria ochroleuca extract, citrus aurantium amara (bitter orange) flower extract, beta-carotene, xanthophylls, helianthus annuus (sunflower) seed oil, rosmarinus officinalis (rosemary) leaf extract, citric acid, lactic acid, sodium hydroxide, geraniol, linalool., neo sephiri pure kalahari melon oil , rrp £85 pure kalahari melon oil a unique combination of high vitamin e and essential fatty acids means that kalahari melon oil is non-greasy and fast absorbing – giving your skin barrier the nutrients it needs to build cells and boost skin health. as well as the cosmetic benefits, the high amount of vitamin e means this oil is naturally stabilised and there is no need for preservatives. how to use apply three to five drops to your fingertips. press gently across your face and finish by massaging your neck and décolleté. any remaining oil can be applied to your cuticles. use daily as a final step in your nightly skincare routine or mix in directly with your moisturiser for an instant hydration boost. ingredients citrullus lanatus (kalahari melon) seed oil., garnier micellar reusable make-up remover eco pads, 3 micro fibre pads, rrp £8.99 micellar reusable make-up remover eco pads, 3 micro fibre pads a unique combination of high vitamin e and essential fatty acids means that kalahari melon oil is non-greasy and fast absorbing – giving your skin barrier the nutrients it needs to build cells and boost skin health. as well as the cosmetic benefits, the high amount of vitamin e means this oil is naturally stabilised and there is no need for preservatives. how to use 1. wet the eco pad with garnier micellar water. 2. glide over skin to gently yet effectively remove up to 100% make-up, dirt & impurities. 3. once finished, rinse eco pad under the tap using hand-soap and water or pop into your normal clothes wash for a deeper clean. lay flat to dry. each eco pad can be used up to 1000 times, helping to reduce cotton wool pad wastage. ingredients n/a, wedo moisture & shine no plastic shampoo bar, rrp £14.95 moisture & shine no plastic shampoo bar this shampoo bar is created specifically for normal or damaged hair, leaving it soft, vibrant and moisturised. formulated with organic argan oil and natural mineral red clay, the moisture & shine no plastic shampoo is vegan society & cruelty free international approved and is made with 99.8% biodegradable ingredients. these nourishing ingredients make the bar great for the hair, and the body. one shampoo bar lasts up to 80 washes, meaning it can last up to 3 of our 300ml shampoo bottles! how to use wet hair. wet the bar and rub it on your hands until it lathers, then massage into your scalp and hair. or rub the bar directly on wet hair. rinse. ingredients disodium lauryl sulfosuccinate, cetearyl alcohol, triticum vulgare (wheat) starch, hydrogenated castor oil, glycerin, cocamidopropyl betaine, coco-glucoside, stearic acid, butyrospermum parkii (shea) butter, argania spinosa kernel oil, bentonite, parfum/fragrance, sodium chloride, illite, kaolin, aqua/water/eau., victoria beckham beauty posh lipstick, rrp £34 posh lipstick "posh lipstick is a new level of luxury for lips: rich colour, deep moisture, soft shine, and sophisticated design — all in a supremely clean, vegan formula. what it does: packed with nutrient-rich natural oils and soft, protective waxes, a single swipe of posh lipstick hydrates and nourishes lips while providing rich, impactful colour with buttery shine. the result: healthier, happier, fuller-looking lips with luscious colour and a natural touch of shine." how to use apply a single swipe of posh on lips to hydrate and nourish, reapply for buildable medium coverage. apply straight from the bullet and start at the center of your mouth then smooth the color to the outer corners. for a fuller, more dimensional look, line lips with lip definer. ingredients ingredients / ingrédients : polyglyceryl-3 diisostearate, diisostearyl malate, bis-diglyceryl polyacyladipate-2, pentaerythrityl tetraisostearate, caprylic/capric triglyceride, synthetic wax, triisostearin, polybutene, euphorbia cerifera (candelilla) wax / candelilla cera / cire de candelilla, helianthus annuus (sunflower) seed wax, rosa damascena flower wax, dicalcium phosphate, simmondsia chinensis (jojoba) seed oil, rosa canina fruit oil, punica granatum flower extract, silica, tocopheryl acetate, persea gratissima (avocado) oil, cocos nucifera (coconut) oil, mica. may contain / peut contenir / (+/-) : titanium dioxide (ci 77891), iron oxides (ci 77491, ci 77492, ci 77499), yellow 5 lake (ci 19140), red 6 (ci 15850), red 7 (ci 15850), blue 1 lake (ci 42090), red 7 lake (ci 15850), yellow 10 lake (ci 47005), yellow 6 lake (ci 15985), red 28 lake (ci 45410), manganese violet (ci 77742)., dr. barbara sturm the good c vitamin c serum, rrp £40 the good c vitamin c serum dr. barbara sturm’s the good c vitamin c serum deploys her proprietary formulation of vitamin c in three skin-friendly forms. the serum contains the optimal concentration of 5% vitamin c in a stable form that is easily absorbed, safe and gentle on the skin. the good c vitamin c serum has an active ingredient complex that includes oil-soluble vitamin c thd, stabilized, synthetic vitamin c in glucosidic form and an extract from kakadu plum, a fruit that is a potent source of plant-based vitamin c. together, they help to reduce uneven pigmentation, improve tone and provide anti-oxidative protection from free radicals and environmental stressors for a youthful and healthy-looking complexion. the serum also contains zinc, which helps to increase the absorption of vitamin c into the skin. finally, vitamin c supports the formation of collagen, which is needed for firm and youthful-looking skin. how to use place one pipette length of the good c vitamin c serum into the palm of your hand and distribute over the face using gentle tapping motions. avoid the eye area. wait for approximately one minute until the serum is absorbed before applying dr. barbara sturm’s face cream. for daytime use, we recommend concluding your skincare routine with sun drops spf 50 for extra sun protection. also suitable for use in the evening as a night-time serum. the good c vitamin c serum can be mixed with other sturm serums, drops or moisturizers. ingredients vitamin c thd, kakadu plum, vitamin c glucoside, olive leaf extract, zinc, aloe vera, purslane extract, apricot kernel oil, hyaluronic acid, glycerin, sunflower oil, vitamin e., best, cosmopolitan, country living, elle, elle decoration, esquire, good housekeeping, harper's bazaar, house beautiful, inside soap, men's health, prima, red, runner's world, women's health, magazine subscriptions, men's health squad, beauty boxes, gift box, gift shop, single issues, special editions, prima patterns, holidays, print + digital packages, digital only subscriptions, sign in/register, renew my subscription, update my details, login, contact us, faq, delivery dates, about hearst magazines uk, privacy policy, terms and conditions, cookie policy, cookie settings, become a hearst affiliate, privacy policy, terms & conditions, cookie policy, cookie settings]