[many items are added to the internet archive’s collections every month, by us and by our patrons. here’s a round up of some of the new media you might want to check out. logging in might be required to borrow certain items. , this month we’ve added books on varied subjects in more than 20 languages. click through to explore, but here are a few interesting items to start with:, the audio archive contains recordings ranging from alternative news programming, to grateful dead concerts, to old time radio shows, to book and poetry readings, to original music uploaded by our users. explore., founded in 2005, librivox is a community of volunteers from all over the world who record audiobooks of public domain texts in many different languages. explore., listen to this collection of 78rpm records, cylinder recordings, and other recordings from the early 20th century. explore., the live music archive is a community committed to providing the highest quality live concerts in a lossless, downloadable format, along with the convenience of on-demand streaming (all with artist permission). explore., , this collection hosts complete, freely downloadable/streamable, often creative commons-licensed catalogs of ‘virtual record labels’. these ‘netlabels’ are non-profit, community-built entities dedicated to providing high quality, non-commercial, freely distributable mp3/ogg-format music for online download in a multitude of genres. explore., watch feature films, classic shorts, documentaries, propaganda, movie trailers, and more! explore., , register now for our library as laboratory lightning talks session, may 11 @ 11am pt., in this final session of the internet archive’s digital humanities expo, library as laboratory, you’ll hear from scholars in a series of short presentations about their research and how they’re using collections and infrastructure from the internet archive for their work., speakers include:, sawood alam (internet archive), items in the internet archive’s petabox collections of various media types like image, video, audio, book, etc. have rich metadata, representative thumbnails, and interactive hero elements. however, web collections, primarily containing warc files and their corresponding cdx files, often look opaque. we created an open-source cli tool called “cdx summary” [1] to process sorted cdx files and generate reports. these summary reports give insights on various dimensions of cdx records/captures, such as, total number of mementos, number of unique original resources, distribution of various media types and their http status codes, path and query segment counts, temporal spread, and capture frequencies of top tlds, hosts, and uris. we also implemented a uniform sampling algorithm to select a given number of random memento uris (i.e., uri-ms) with 200 ok html responses that can be utilized for quality assurance purposes or as a representative sample for the collection of warc files. our tool can generate both comprehensive and brief reports in json format as well as human readable textual representation. we ran our tool on a selected set of public web collections in petabox, stored resulting json files in their corresponding collections, and made them accessible publicly (with the hope that they might be useful for researchers). furthermore, we implemented a custom web component that can load cdx summary report json files and render them in interactive html representations. finally, we integrated this web component into the collection/item views of the main site of the internet archive, so that patrons can access rich and interactive information when they visit a web collection/item in petabox. we also found our tool useful for crawl operators as it helped us identify numerous issues in some of our crawls that would have otherwise gone unnoticed. [1] https://github.com/internetarchive/cdx-summary/ , michelle alexopoulos (university of toronto),  economic policies enacted by the government and its agencies have large impacts on the welfare of businesses and individuals—especially those related to fiscal and monetary policy. communicating the details of the policies to the public is an important and complex undertaking. policymakers tasked with the communication not only need to present complicated information in simple and relatable terms, but they also need to be credible and convincing—all the while being at the center of the media’s spotlight. in this briefing, i will discuss recent research on the applications of ai to monetary policy communications, and lessons learned to date. in particular, i will report on my recent ongoing project with researchers at the bank of canada that analyzes the effects of emotional cues by the chairs of the u.s. federal reserve on financial markets during congressional testimonies.  , while most previous work has mainly focused on the effects of a central bank’s highly scripted messages about its rate decisions delivered by its leader, we use resources from the internet archive, cspan and copies of testimony transcripts and apply a variety of tools and techniques to study the both the messages and the messengers’ delivery of them. i will review how we apply recent advances in machine learning and big data to construct measures of federal reserve chair’s emotions, expressed via his or her words, voice, and face, as well as discuss challenges encountered and our findings to date. in all, our initial results highlight the salience of the fed chair’s emotional cues for shaping market responses to fed communications. understanding the effects of non-verbal communication and responses to verbal cues may help policy makers improve upon their communication strategies going forward.  , renata barreto (university of california berkeley), in december 2018, tumblr took down massive amounts of lgbtq content from its platform. motivated in part by increasing pressures from financial institutions and a newly passed law — sesta / fosta, which made companies liable for sex trafficking online — tumblr implemented a strict “not safe for work” or nsfw model, whose false positives included images of fully clothed women, handmade and digital art, and other innocuous objects, such as vases. the archive team, in conjunction with the internet archive, jumped into high gear and began to scrape self-tagged nsfw blogs in the 2 weeks between tumblr’s announcement of its new policy and its algorithmic operationalization. at the time, tumblr was considered a safe haven for the lgbtq community and in 2013 yahoo! bought tumblr for 1.1 billion. in the aftermath of the so-called “tumblr purge,” tumblr lost its main user base and, as of 2019, was valued at 3 million. this paper digs into a slice of the 90 tb of data saved by the archive team. this is a unique opportunity to peek under the hood of yahoo’s open_nsfw model, which experts believe was used in the tumblr purge, and examine the distribution of false positives on the archive team dataset. specifically, we run the open_nsfw model on our dataset and use the t-sne algorithm to project the similarities across images on 3d space., tom gally (university of tokyo), “japan as they saw it” is a collection of descriptions of japan by american and british visitors in the 1850s and later. japan had been closed to outsiders for more than two centuries, and there was much curiosity in the west about this newly accessible country. the excerpts are grouped by category—land, people, culture, etc.—and each excerpt is linked to the book where it first appeared at the internet archive. “japan as they saw it” can be read online, or it can be downloaded as a free ebook., tom gally (university of tokyo), novels were the binge-watched television, the hit podcasts of the 19th century—immersive, addictive, commercial—and they were produced and consumed in huge numbers. but many novels of that era have slipped through the cracks of literary memory. “forgotten novels of the 19th century” is a list of fifty of those neglected novels, all waiting to be discovered and read for free at the internet archive., kate miltner (university of edinburgh), over the past 10 years, americans have been exhorted to “learn to code” in order to solve a series of entrenched social issues: the tech “skills gap”, the looming threat of ai and automation, social mobility, and the underrepresentation of women and people of color in the tech industry. in response to this widespread discourse, an entire industry of short-term intensive training courses– otherwise known as coding bootcamps– have sprung up across the us, bringing in hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue a year and training tens of thousands of people. coding bootcamps have been framed as a novel kind of institution that is equipped to solve contemporary problems. however, materials from the internet archive show us that, in fact, a similar discourse about computer programming and similar organizations called edp schools existed over 70 years ago. this talk will showcase materials from the ted nelson archive and the computerworld archive to showcase how lessons from the past can inform the present., roderic page (university of glasgow), the “bibliography of life” is the aspiration of making all the taxonomic literature available so that for every species on the planet we can find its original description, as well as track how our knowledge of those species has changed over time. by combining content from the internet archive and the wayback machine with information in wikidata we can make 100’s of thousands of taxonomic publications discoverable, and many of these can also be freely read via the internet archive. this presentation will outline this project, how it relates to efforts such as the biodiversity heritage library, and highlight some tools such as wikicite search and alec to help export this content., art rhyno (university of windsor), the university of windsor has set up a mechanism for automatic scanning with an internet archive tt scanner, used for the library’s major papers collection., spencer torene (thomson reuters special services, llc), developing  semantic  hierarchies  from  user-created  hashtags  in  social  media  can  provide  useful  organizational  structure  to  large  volumes  of  data.  however,  construction of  these  hierarchies  is  difficult  using  established  ontologies  (e.g.  wordnet)  due  to the differences in the semantic and pragmatic use of words vs. hashtags in social media. while alternative construction methods based on hashtag frequency are relatively straightforward, these methods can be susceptible to the dynamic nature of social media,  such  as  hashtags  associated  with  surges  in  popularity.  we  drew  inspiration  from the ecologically-based shannon diversity index (sdi) to create a more representative and  resilient  method  of  semantic  hierarchy  construction  that  relies  upon  graph-based community detection and a novel, entropy-based ensemble diversity index (edi) score. the edi quantifies the contextual diversity of each hashtag, resulting in thousands of semantically-related groups of hashtags organized along a general-to-specific spectrum. through an application of edi to social media data (twitter) and a comparison of our results to prior approaches, we demonstrate our method’s ability to create semantically consistent hierarchies that can be flexibly applied and adapted to a range of use cases., emmanouil tranos (university of bristol), while geographers first turned their focus on the internet 25 years ago, the wealth of data that the internet archive preserves and offers remains at large unexplored, especially for large projects in terms of scope and geographical scale. however, there is hardly any other data source that depicts the evolution of our interaction with the digital and, importantly, the spatial footprint of this interaction better than the internet archive. therefore, the last few years we have been using extensively data from the internet archive in order to understand the geography and the evolution of the creation of online content and their interrelation with cities and spatial structure. specifically, we have worked with the british library and utilised the jisc uk web domain dataset (1996-2013)1 for a number of projects in order to (i) explore whether the availability of online content of local interest can attract individuals online, (ii) assess how the early engagement with web tools can affect future productivity, (iii) map the evolution of economic clusters, and (iv) predict interregional trade flows. the internet archive helps us not only to map the evolution and the geography of the engagement with the internet especially at its early stages and, therefore, draw important lessons regarding new future technologies, but also to understand economic activities that take place within and between cities. 1http://data.webarchive.org.uk/opendata/ukwa.ds.2/, guest post by: tricia dean, tech services manager at wilmington public library district (il), this post is part of a series written by members of the community webs program. community webs advances the capacity for community-focused memory organizations to build web and digital archives documenting local histories and underrepresented voices. for more information, visit communitywebs.archive-it.org/, i was excited when i saw the call for participants in community webs. while wilmington, illinois is a small, rural town (5,664 people), the thought was that we still had something to contribute. most archive-it partners are universities, museums and large libraries, and being in their company was a little daunting to me initially. other institutions have someone who opens the project, and then it develops into a larger team project. wilmington public library district (wpld) has a much smaller staff; the project has been wholly mine, which has been both thrilling and terrifying. , wilmington is a small rural town, falling on the lower end of the economic scale.  because we are isolated,the library plays a vital part in the community.  we offer the usual storytimes and adult programs, but also loan out hotspots and chromebooks. we have 45 hotspots and these are almost always checked out; some people are using them for vacations, but by usage it is apparent that others are using them as their primary means of connecting to the internet. internet access has been more and more important, but after the covid-19 broke out, more governmental services went strictly online, making access even more critical – and to many who had not been regular patrons. wpld is a hub for the community, offering computers, information, tax forms, and a place to come in and chat – even more important when we are trying to stay close and limit outside contact., i am a chicago native who went to champaign-urbana for grad school. i was a scanner for the internet archive for several years where i was privileged to handle some incunabula (pre-1500 items). i am the technical services supervisor at wilmington; primarily i catalog our materials, but i also tend toward projects, from adding series labels to re-orienting all the calls in the juvenile non-fiction section.  i am currently going through our attic to help determine what we have (it’s a mystery!). i’m making lists, and hoping to have items to scan which would be available online, in multiple places. i applied for the community webs program (with my director’s blessing) because i felt that it’s important for small towns to be represented in the collection of history. only 20% of the population still lives outside major metro areas, but it is every bit as important to capture that life as it is to retain the history of large cities., wilmington library joined community webs in the summer of 2021. after some technical clarifications with the archive-it staff wlpd was set up. in considering what made wilmington unique, the first link was to our library and social media pages. social media has grown in importance in the last twenty years, but it became a vital link during covid when services were otherwise unavailable. wilmington library youtube videos, how-tos, crafts and storytime, stand to remind us of how we responded and as a continuing reference for parents who can’t get to the library. but since social media, specifically, is known for ‘right now,’ it lacks the kind of reflection over time that we can create through the community webs project., we may be small, but we have a number of historical articles and sites which needed to be brought together. we want to reflect events that have been impactful to our community, from the explosion of the joliet armory in the 1940s to the continuing issues with the wilmington dam, which has proved dangerous, but has complicated ownership issues. i still have a long way to go; the projects (attic/local history/web archive) are all intertwined. wilmington has the usual community resources and city government collections in archive-it. going forward, we want to continue to develop our wilmington history collection. we are working on local history and will establish a collection of materials from our attic and public donations. our local paper has vertical files which could be a goldmine of information – again, on my to-do list.  we will be kicking off an oral history project, which will begin with a series of simple gatherings/coffee hours for our seniors, providing a place for them to gather, and a space to share their stories. i am hoping these will be in our community webs archive. who better to speak to where we’ve been and where we are than some of our oldest residents?, why is community webs important? because it will help to remember when we cannot keep up with the information overload. because there is so much happening that we miss a good deal of what is around us – or can’t bear to face it for long. because so very very much of our lives are now online – and can be erased with a keystroke. because we are seeing, painfully, that those who do not learn from the past will be/are condemned to re-live it. and, for wilmington, i think it is important because so many of the voices and sites being captured are from museums, universities and large public libraries. it is important that we remember that we used to be far less urban than we are today. it is important to remember the smaller places, those who are too easily lost in the maelstrom of modern life, because to be forgotten is to be erased., at a recent webinar hosted by the internet archive, leaders from the biodiversity heritage library (bhl) shared how its massive open access digital collection documenting life on the planet is an invaluable resource of use to scientists and ordinary citizens., “the bhl is a global consortium of the  leading natural history museums, botanical gardens, and research institutions — big and small— from all over the world. working together and in partnership with the internet archive, these libraries have digitized more than 60 million pages of scientific literature available to the public”, said chris freeland, director of open libraries and moderator of the event., established in 2006 with a commitment to inspiring discovery through free access to biodiversity knowledge, bhl has 19 members and 22 affiliates, plus 100 worldwide partners contributing data. the bhl has content dating back nearly 600 years alongside current literature that, when liberated from the print page, holds immense promise for advancing science and solving today’s pressing problems of climate change and the loss of biodiversity., martin kalfatovic, bhl program director and associate director of the smithsonian libraries and archives, noted in his presentation that charles darwin and colleagues famously said “the cultivation of natural science cannot be efficiently carried on without reference to an extensive library.”, “today, the biodiversity heritage library is creating this global, accessible open library of literature that will  help scientists, taxonomists, environmentalists—a host of people working with our planet—to actually have ready access to these collections,” kalfatovic said. bhl’s mission is to improve research methodology by working with its partner libraries and the broader biodiversity and bioinformatics community. each month, bhl draws about 142,000 visitors and 12 million users overall., “the outlook for the planet is challenging. by unlocking this historic data [in the biodiversity heritage library], we can find out where we’ve been over time to find out more about where we need to be in the future.”, most of the bhl’s materials are from collections in the global north, primarily in large, well-funded institutions. digitizing these collections helps level the playing field, providing researchers in all parts of the world equal access to vital content., the vast collection includes species descriptions, distribution records, climate records, history of scientific discovery, information on extinct species, and records of scientific distributions of where species live. to date, bhl has made over 176,000 titles and 281,000 volumes available. through a partnership with the global names architecture project, more than 243 million instances of taxonomic (latin) names have been found in bhl content., kalfatovic underscored the value of bhl content in understanding the environment in the wake of recent troubling news from the sixth assessment report (ar6) published by the  intergovernmental panel on climate change about the impact of the earth’s warming. , “the outlook for the planet is challenging,” he said. “by unlocking this historic data, we can find out where we’ve been over time to find out more about where we need to be in the future.”, jj dearborn, bhl data manager, discussed how digitization transforms physical books into digital objects that can be shared with “anyone, at any time, anywhere.” she describes the wikimedia ecosystem as “fertile ground for open access experimentation,” crediting the organization with giving bhl the ability to reach new audiences and transform its data into 5-star linked open data. “dark data” that is locked up in legacy formats, jp2s, and ocr text are sources of valuable checklist, species occurrence, and event sampling data that the larger biodiversity community can use to improve humanity’s collective ability to monitor biodiversity loss and the destructive impacts of climate change, at scale.  , the majority of the world’s data today is siloed, unstructured, and unused, dearborn explained. this “dark data” “represents an untapped resource that could really transform human understanding if it could be truly utilized,” she said. “it might represent a gestalt leap for humanity.” , the event was the fifth in a series of six sessions highlighting how researchers in the humanities use the internet archive. the final session of the library as laboratory series will be a series of lightning talks on may 11 at 11am pt / 2pm et—register now!, the internet archive is proud to partner with better world books to support ukrainian students and scholars. with a $1 donation at checkout during your purchase at betterworldbooks.com, you will help provide verifiable information to ukrainian scholars all over the world through wikipedia., since 2019, the internet archive has worked with the wikipedia community to strengthen citations to published literature. working in collaboration with wikipedians and data scientists, internet archive has linked hundreds of thousands of citations in wikipedia to books in our collection, offering wikipedia editors and readers single-click access to the verifiable facts contained within libraries. , recently, our engineers analyzed the citations in the ukrainian-language wikipedia, and were able to connect citations to more than 17,000 books that have already been digitized by the internet archive, such as the page for геноміка (english translation: genomics), which links to a science textbook published in 2002. through this work, we discovered that there are more than 25,000 additional books that we don’t have in our collection—and that’s where you can help! , now through the end of june, when you make a $1 donation at checkout during your purchase at betterworldbooks.com, your donation will go to acquire books that are cited in the ukrainian-language wikipedia. books acquired will be donated to internet archive for digitization and preservation. once digitized, the books will be linked from their citations in wikipedia, offering readers the ability to check facts in published literature. books will be available for borrowing by one person at a time at archive.org, and will also be available for scholars to request via interlibrary loan. with your help, we can ensure that ukrainian scholars and people studying ukraine have access to authoritative, factual information about ukrainian history and culture. , thank you for making a difference by buying books from better world books and helping ukrainian students and scholars with your donation., watching a single episode of the evening news can be informative. tracking trends in broadcasts over time can be fascinating. , the internet archive has preserved nearly 3 million hours of u.s. local and national tv news shows and made the material open to researchers for exploration and non-consumptive computational analysis. at a webinar april 13, tv news archive experts shared how they’ve curated the massive collection and leveraged technology so scholars, journalists and the general public can make use of the vast repository., roger macdonald, founder of the tv news archive, and kalev leetaru, collaborating data scientist and gdelt project founder, spoke at the session. chris freeland, director of open libraries, served as moderator and internet archive founder brewster kahle offered opening remarks., “growing up in the television age, [television] is such an influential, important medium—persuasive, yet not something you can really quote,” kahle said. “we wanted to make it so that you could quote, compare and contrast.” , the internet archive built on the work of the vanderbilt television archive, and the ucla library broadcast newsscape to give the public a broader “macro view,” said kahle. the trends seen in at-scale computational analyses of news broadcasts can be used to understand the bigger picture of what is happening in the world and the lenses through which we see the world around us., in 2012, with donations from individuals and philanthropies such as the knight foundation, the archive started repurposing the closed captioning data stream required of all u.s. broadcasters into a search index. “this simple approach transformed the antiquated experience of searching for specific topics within video,” said macdonald, who helped lead the effort. “the tv caption search enabled discovery at internet speed with the ability to simultaneously search millions of programs and have your results plotted over time, down to individual broadcasters and programs.”, “[television] is such an influential, important medium—persuasive, yet not something you can really quote. we wanted to make it so that you could quote, compare and contrast.”, scholars and journalists were quick to embrace this opportunity, but the team kept experimenting with deeper indexing. techniques like audio fingerprinting, optical character recognition (ocr) and computer vision made it possible to capture visual elements of the news and improve access, macdonald said. , sub-collections of political leaders’ speeches and interviews have been created, including an extensive donald trump archive. some of the archive’s most productive advances have come from collaborating with outsiders who have requested more access to the collection than is available through the public interface, macdonald said. with appropriate restrictions to maintain respect for broadcasters and distribution platforms, the archive has worked with select scientists and journalists as partners to use data in the collection for more complex analyses., treating television news as data creates vast opportunities for computational analysis, said leetaru. researchers can track word frequency use in the news and how that has changed over time.  for instance, it’s possible to look at mentions of covid-related words across selected news programs and see when it surged and leveled off with each wave before plummeting downward, as shown in the graph below., the newly computed metadata can help provide context and assist with fact checking efforts to combat misinformation. it can allow researchers to map the geography of television news—how certain parts of the world are covered more than others, leetaru said. through the collections, researchers have explored  which presidential tweets challenging election integrity got the most exposure on the news.  ocr of every frame has been used to create models of how to identify names of every “dr.” depicted on cable tv after the outbreak of covid-19 and calculate air time devoted to the medical doctors commenting on one of the virus variants.  reverse image lookup of images in tv news has been used to determine the source of photos and videos.  visual entity search tools can even reveal the increasing prevalence of bookshelves as backdrops during home interviews in the pandemic, as well as appearances of books by specific authors or titles. open datasets of computed tv news metadata are available that include all visual entity and ocr detections, 10-minute interval captioning ngrams and second by second inventories of each broadcast cataloging whether it was “news” programming, “advertising” programming or “uncaptioned” (in the case of television news this is almost exclusively advertising)., from television news to digitized books and periodicals, dozens of projects rely on the collections available at archive.org for computational and bibliographic research across a large digital corpus. data scientists or anyone with questions about the tv news archives, can contact info@archive.org., this webinar was the fourth a series of six sessions highlighting how researchers in the humanities use the internet archive. the next will be about analyzing biodiversity literature at scale on april 27. register here., “how decentralized identity drives privacy” with internet archive, metro library council, and library futures, how many passwords do you have saved, and how many of them are controlled by a large, corporate platform instead of by you? last month’s “keeping your personal data personal: how decentralized identity drives privacy” session started with that provocative question in order to illustrate the potential of this emerging technology., self-sovereign identity (ssi), defined as “an idea, a movement, and a decentralized approach for establishing trust online,” sits in the middle of the stack of technologies that makes up the decentralized internet. in the words of the decentralized identity resource guide written specifically for this session, “self-sovereign identity is a system where users themselves–and not centralized platforms or services like google, facebook, or linkedin–are in control and maintain ownership of their personal information.”,   research shows that the average american has more than 150 different accounts and passwords – a number that has likely skyrocketed since the start of the pandemic. in her presentation, wendy hanamura, director of partnerships at the internet archive, discussed the implications of “trading privacy and security for convenience.” hanamura drew on her recent experience at sxsw, which bundled her personal data, including medical and vaccine data, into an insecure qr code used by a corporate sponsor to verify her as a participant. in contrast, hanamura says that the twenty-year old concept of self-sovereign identity can disaggregate these services from corporations, empowering people to be in better control of their own data and identity through principles like control, access, transparency, and consent. while self-sovereign identity presents incredible promise as a concept, it also raises fascinating technical questions around verification and management., for kaliya “identity woman” young, her interest in identity comes from networks of global ecology and information technology, which she has been part of for more than twenty years. in 2000, when the internet was still nascent, she joined with a community to ask: “how can this technology best serve people, organizations, and the planet?” underlying her work is the strong belief that people should have the right to control their own online identity with the maximum amount of flexibility and access. using a real life example, young compared self-sovereign identity to a physical wallet. like a wallet, self-sovereign identity puts users in control of what they share, and when, with no centralized ability for an issuer to tell when the pieces of information within the wallet is presented., in contrast, the modern internet operates with a series of centralized identifiers like icann or iana for domain names and ip addresses and corporate private namespaces like google and facebook. young’s research and work decentralizes this way of transmitting information through “signed portable proofs,” which come from a variety of sources rather than one centralized source. these proofs are also called verifiable credentials and have metadata, the claim itself, and a digital signature embedded for validation. all of these pieces come together in a digital wallet, verified by a digital identifier that is unique to a person. utilizing cryptography, these identifiers would be validated by digital identity documents and registries. in this scenario, organizations like incommon, an access management service, or even a professional licensing organization like the american library association can maintain lists of institutions that would be able to verify the identity or organizational affiliation of an identifier. in the end, young emphasized a message of empowerment – in her work, self-sovereign identity is about “innovating protocols to represent people in the digital realm in ways that empower them and that they control.”, next, librarian lambert heller of technische bibliothek and irene adamski of the berlin-based ssi firm jolocom discussed and demonstrated their work in creating self-sovereign identity for academic conferences on a new platform called condidi. this tool allows people running academic events to have a platform that issues digital credentials of attendance in a decentralized system. utilizing open source and decentralized software, this system minimizes the amount of personal information that attendees need to give over to organizers while still allowing participants to track and log records of their attendance. for libraries, this kind of system is crucial – new systems like condidi help libraries protect user privacy and open up platform innovation., self-sovereign identity also utilizes a new tool called  a “smart wallet,” which holds one’s credentials and is controlled by the user. for example, at a conference, a user might want to tell the organizer that she is of age, but not share any other information about herself. a demo of jolocom’s system demonstrated how this system could work. in the demo, irene showed how a wallet could allow a person to share just the information she wants through encrypted keys in a conference situation. jolocom also allows people to verify credentials using an encrypted wallet. according to adamski, the best part of self sovereign identity is that “you don’t have to share if you don’t want to.” this way, “i am in control of my data.”, to conclude, heller discussed a recent movement in europe called “stop tracking science.” to combat publishing oligopolies and data analytics companies, a group of academics have come together to create scholar-led infrastructure. as heller says, in the current environment, “your journal is reading you,” which is a terrifying thought about scholarly communications., these academics are hoping to move toward shared responsibility and open, decentralized infrastructure using the major building blocks that already exist. one example of how academia is already decentralized is through pids, or persistent identifiers, which are already widely used through systems like orcid. according to heller, these pids are “part of the commons” and can be shared in a consistent, open manner across systems, which could be used in a decentralized manner for personal identity rather than a centralized one. to conclude, heller said, “there is no technical fix for social issues. we need to come up with a model for how trust works in research infrastructure.”, it is clear that self-sovereign identity holds great promise as part of a movement for technology that is privacy-respecting, open, transparent, and empowering. in this future, it will be possible to have a verified identity that is held by you, not by a big corporation – the vision that we are setting out to achieve. want to help us get there? , join us at the next events hosted by metro library council, internet archive, and library futures. https://metro.org/decentralizedweb, links shared, links shared: resource guide for this session: https://archive.org/details/resource-guide-session-03-decentralized-identity all resource guides: https://metro.org/dwebresourceguides decentralized orcid: https://whoisthis.wtf internet identity workshop: https://internetidentityworkshop.com/ jolocom: https://jolocom.io/ condidi: https://labs.tib.eu/info/en/project/condidi/ truage: https://www.convenience.org/truage/home diacc trust framework: https://diacc.ca/trust-framework/ pctf-ccp https://canada-ca.github.io/pctf-ccp truage digital id verification solution: https://www.convenience.org/media/daily/2021/may/11/2-truagetm-digital-id-verification-solution_nacs nudata security: https://nudatasecurity.com/passive-biometrics/ kaliya young’s book, domains of identity: https://identitywoman.net/wp-content/uploads/domains-of-identity-highlights.pdf, internet archive’s full collection of books and periodicals are now available, for free, to ukrainian libraries through interlibrary loan (ill) via rapidill. scholars who request materials through ill get pdfs of articles and book chapters from the internet archive’s full collections, usually in under an hour. libraries can learn more and sign up for access here., guest post by: inuit circumpolar council alaska, this post is part of a series written by members of internet archive’s community webs program. community webs advances the capacity for community-focused memory organizations to build web and digital archives documenting local histories and underrepresented voices. for more information, visit communitywebs.archive-it.org/, can you describe your community and the services and role of your organization within the community?, inuit circumpolar council (icc) alaska works on behalf of the inupiat of the north slope, northwest and bering straits regions; st. lawrence island yupik; and the central yup’ik and cup’ik of the yukon-kuskokwim region in southwest alaska. icc alaska is a national member of icc international. since inception in 1977, icc has gained consultative status ii with the united nations, and is a permanent participant of the arctic council., for example, icc has provisional status with the international maritime organization (imo), is an active member at the arctic council senior level and within the working groups and is a prominent voice at the un framework convention on climate change (unfccc). work and engagement occur in many ways at these different fora. within the unfccc, icc has taken a leadership role in putting forward indigenous knowledge and establishing a platform for providing equitable space for multiple knowledge systems. additionally, at the unfccc cop 26, icc chair, dr. dalee sambo dorough, led an icc delegation made up of inuitrepresentatives from across the arctic., an immense amount of work occurs in direct partnership with inuit communities to inform work at international fora. for example, icc is facilitating the development of international protocols for equitable and ethical engagement. these protocols will provide a pathway to success for all that want to work within inuit homelands and whose work impacts the arctic. the protocols will aid in a paradigm shift in how work, decisions, and policies are currently created and carried out. the paradigm shift will lead toward greater equity and recognition of inuit sovereignty and self-determination., why was your organization interested in participating in community webs? , the community webs program was attractive to icc because it provided the training and the storage to effectively preserve icc’s digitized & born-digital archival materials. we were pleased to see this offering as a solution for an ongoing desire to archive the prolific organization’s digital materials & products. this work dovetails nicely with icc alaska’s efforts to digitize 47 boxes, or around 80 linear feet of material that span 6 decades, including audio, film, photographic media, and paper documents., icc jam – part 2 – greenland, cultural programming as part of the 1983 general assembly. in this clip, view performances from greenland’s tuktak theater and a greenlandic choir, icc advocates for inuit and inuit way of life, highlighted by icc’s general assembly meetings. the icc receives its mandate from a general assembly held every four years. the general assembly is the heart of the organization, providing an opportunity for sharing information, discussing common concerns, debating issues, and strengthening the unity between all inuit across our homelands. through the community webs project, icc alaska has been able to preserve archival video of the icc general assemblies going back 30 years using archive-it and the internet archive, as well as all newsletters, press releases, resolutions, social media campaigns, and reports published on its website. these are a significant record of icc advocacy, but more importantly, inuit political and cultural heritage., why do you think it is important for public libraries, community archives, and other local and community-based organizations to do this work?, community-based organizations are uniquely positioned as both a part of and apart from the community. this vantage point allows for the self-reflection and observation needed for web archiving, as well as the relationships within the community to create the space and dialogue needed for community archiving projects. by building more capacity within community-based organizations for web archiving and digital preservation efforts, we can expand the recorded historical narrative and humanities-based inquiries in a multitude of directions, to truly reflect the diversity of our world & time., where do you hope to see your web archiving program going?, the core goal of this work is to make icc documents and its historical narrative more accessible and discoverable within icc, to icc’s member organizations, international bodies, and researchers, our aspirations are much bigger. our hope is that this web archive goes beyond the core goal to inspire, delight, hearten, inform, and add depth to the conversations inuit are having about cultural identity, relationship to the land, hunting, advocacy, self-determination, and self-governance. , we are curious about the intangible outcomes: what new work does the archive inspire? how does the archive add depth & historical weight to existing projects, discussions, and advocacy? what stories and knowledge gets re-remembered, or re-investigated after viewing archival materials? what advocacy, ethics, and philosophical works come from inuit leaders informed by the legacy that the archive shared? are youth leaders interested in adding to the archive?, is there anything you would like your organization to contribute back to the broader community of web archiving and/or local history in the form of documentation, workflows, policy drafts or other resources?, we have several aspirations. firstly, it is the telling of inuit stories. the archive is another manifestation of that mission – to record and share inuit voices across time. to increase access to those voices, information, knowledge, and history. the icc archival holdings are a historically unique & culturally significant telling of inuit cultural heritage, history (including political history), educational pedagogy, philosophy, self-determination, values, ethics, environmental stewardship, and indigenous knowledge. it is important to create a way for inuit to discover and interact with this work. community webs has offered a new tool in our toolkit., secondly, the goal is to move forward conversations about categorization and information management for indigenous communities. what does that look like in best practice? can we, together with other inuit archives, improve on existing practices to create a more equitable and ethical engagement with inuit-produced information, the management of that information, and the discovery and access of that information., what are you most excited to learn through your participation in community webs?, it was exciting to discover that many inuit and alaska native resources that have already been preserved using the internet archive. these resources are often affected by insufficient financial support. being able to have a preserved and accessible copy of these resources is an important step towards creating the bigger picture of the historical record of inuit advocacy. as part of the community webs meetings, it was exciting to hear from other tribal librarians and community archivists across the country & world. additionally, it was exciting to hear from speakers whose work informs our community archival work at icc alaska – such as chaitra powell who created (among other amazing things) the “archive in a backpack” project., what impact do you think web archiving could have within your community?, hopefully this work inspires other organizations to also preserve their digital assets, creating a richer narrative of inuit political and cultural heritage., what do you foresee as some of the challenges you may face?, we are eager to preserve our social media channels that have replaced the drum newsletter as a vehicle for keeping our community up-to-date on icc’s work. ongoing challenges with facebook and instagram archiving are preventing us from doing that. hopefully these issues are resolved in the favor of the communities who created the content and bring their community and connections to these software platforms., to celebrate national library week 2022, we are taking readers behind the scenes to meet the librarians who work at the internet archive and in associated programs., alexis rossi has always loved books and connecting others with information. after receiving her undergraduate degree in english and creative writing, she became a book editor and then worked in online news. , in 2006, rossi joined the staff of the internet archive. she was working on the launch of the open library project when she recognized the need to learn more about how to best organize materials. she enrolled at san jose state university and earned her master’s of library and information science in 2010., “it gave me a better grasp of how to hierarchically organize information in a way that is sensible and useful to other libraries,” rossi said. “it also gave me better familiarity with how other more traditional libraries actually work—the types of data and systems they use.”, rossi concentrated on web interfaces for library information, understanding digital metadata, and how to operate as a digital librarian. in addition to overseeing the open library project, at the internet archive, rossi managed a revamp of the organization’s website, ran the wayback machine for four years, founded the webwide crawling program, and is currently a librarian and director of media & access., “one of the themes of my life is trying to empower people to do whatever they want to do,” said rossi, who grew up in monterey, california, and now lives in san francisco. “giving people the resources to teach themselves—whatever they want to learn—is my driving force.”, “giving people the resources to teach themselves—whatever they want to learn—is my driving force.”, rossi acknowledges she is privileged to have means to avail herself to an abundance of information, while many in other parts of the world do not. there are so many societal problems she cannot solve, rossi said, but she believes her work is making a contribution.  , “we can build a library that allows people to access information for free, wherever they are, and however they can get to it, in whatever way. that, to me, is incredibly important,” rossi said. it’s also rewarding to help patrons discover new information and recover materials they may have thought were lost, she added., when she’s not working, rossi enjoys making funky jewelry and elaborate cakes (a skill she learned on youtube)., among the millions of items and collections in the internet archive, what is rossi’s favorite? video and audio recordings of her dad, now 73, playing the piano, organ and accordion: “it’s just so good. it’s such a perfect little piece of history.”][internet archive blogs, a blog from the team at archive.org, new additions to the internet archive for april 2022, notable new collections from our patrons: , books – 50,109 new items in april, audio archive – 150,224 new items in april, librivox audiobooks – 99 new items in april, 78 rpms and cylinder recordings – 6,745 new items in april, live music archive – 909 new items in april, netlabels – 111 new items in april, movies – 55 new items in april, library as laboratory: new lightning talks announced, register now!, warc collection summarization, more than words: fed chairs’ communication during congressional testimonies, digging into the (internet) archive: examining the nsfw model responsible for the 2018 tumblr purge, japan as they saw it (video), forgotten novels of the 19th century (video), forgotten histories of the mid-century coding bootcamp, the bibliography of life, automatic scanning with an internet archive tt scanner (video), automated hashtag hierarchy generation using community detection and the shannon diversity index, web and cities: (early internet) geographies through the lenses of the internet archive, preserving wilmington history on the web, library as laboratory recap: analyzing biodiversity literature at scale, watch session recording:, helping ukrainian scholars, one book at a time, library as laboratory recap: opening television news for deep analysis and new forms of interactive search, watch video, treating television as data, up next, what’s in your smart wallet? keeping your personal data personal, supporting ukrainian scholars through interlibrary loan, sharing inuit voices across time: inuit circumpolar council alaska’s web and digital archive, meet the librarians: alexis rossi, media & access, post navigation, recent posts, recent comments, categories, archives, meta]internet archive blogs - a blog from the team at archive.org[notable new collections from our patrons: , chris cromwell rare reel to reel tapes, 1940s classic tv, game shows archive, dutch television, book, audio archive –, librivox audiobooks –, 78 rpms and cylinder recording, live music archive –, netlabels, communitywebs.archive-it.org/, links shared:, can you describe your community and the services and role of your organization within the community?, , why was your organization interested in participating in community webs? , icc jam – part 2 – greenland, http://oralhistory.library.uaf.edu/88/88-49-114_t01.pdf, why do you think it is important for public libraries, community archives, and other local and community-based organizations to do this work?, where do you hope to see your web archiving program going?, is there anything you would like your organization to contribute back to the broader community of web archiving and/or local history in the form of documentation, workflows, policy drafts or other resources?, what are you most excited to learn through your participation in community webs?, what impact do you think web archiving could have within your community?, what do you foresee as some of the challenges you may face?][blog, announcements, 25th anniversary, archive.org, about, events, developers, donate, chris cromwell rare reel to reel tapes – rare and recovered reel-to-reel tapes from a variety of sources and preserved by chris cromwell. , 1940s classic tv – television from the 1940s., game shows archive – a collection of game shows throughout television history, involving chance, skill and luck, usually presided over by a host and providing in-show commercials., dutch television – television programs and videos in the dutch language, or from the netherlands., new additions to the internet archive for april 2022, library as laboratory: new lightning talks announced, preserving wilmington history on the web, library as laboratory recap: analyzing biodiversity literature at scale, helping ukrainian scholars, one book at a time, brewster kahle on library as laboratory: new lightning talks announced, جوان موزیک on library as laboratory recap: opening television news for deep analysis and new forms of interactive search, تابان موزیک on what’s in your smart wallet? keeping your personal data personal, evolvous on library as laboratory recap: opening television news for deep analysis and new forms of interactive search, guilherme monteiro junior on what’s in your smart wallet? keeping your personal data personal, 78rpm, announcements, archive version 2, archive-it, audio archive, books archive, cool items, education archive, emulation, event, image archive, jobs, lending books, live music archive, movie archive, music, news, newsletter, open library, past event, software archive, technical, television archive, upcoming event, video archive, wayback machine – web archive, web & data services, log in, entries feed, comments feed, wordpress.org]