[these days, it can sometimes seem as if "stress" is a synonym for "life." (can you say international pandemic?!) from worrying about whether your kids are safe or whether you can travel (or eat out), to a boss piling on yet another deadline, to a suddenly sick family member, it’s all too easy to shift from chilled out to stressed out — that overwhelmed, slightly sweaty, breathless feeling that makes it hard to think and function effectively (and that ups the chances you’ll snap at whomever happens to be in your vicinity)., “stress is becoming more and more a part of everyday life,” says alka gupta, md, the codirector of the integrative health and wellbeing program at newyork-presbyterian hospital and weill cornell medicine in new york city. it’s likely that just checking the news on your phone can be enough to get your heart pounding — and not in a good way., , a little bit of stress can actually be a good thing. indeed, the body and brain's normal reaction to everyday stress is what allows us to handle daily challenges, such as waking up to an alarm clock in the morning, getting stuck in traffic, or coming home to a birthday surprise., stress can also give you an appropriate awareness of when you’re in danger. "it’s essential to your survival as a human being,” says jennifer haythe, md, a cardiologist and the codirector of the center for women’s cardiovascular health at newyork-presbyterian columbia university irving medical center in new york city., that healthy vigilance relies in part on the body’s fight-or-flight response: when something stressful happens, stress hormones like cortisol course through your body, says dr. haythe, amping up your energy and enabling you to, say, get a loved one out of a burning car before you've noticed that you’re injured yourself., but when stress becomes chronic, or when you find that you’re constantly having an outsize reaction to small stressors, that’s when stress can be less than beneficial, and can impact your emotions, cognition, and physical health in a negative way, says gupta. stress may even contribute to serious illness down the line, be it heart disease, lowered immunity, or changes in the brain., but while it’s impossible to banish stress entirely, every one of us can learn coping strategies that help manage its effects. whether it’s listening to soothing music, dabbing your favorite calming essential oils on your pulse points before bed, or closing your eyes, getting out of your head and having a sensory experience, it’s possible to put stress aside when you need to. here’s what you need to know to calm your nervous system, keep stressful events in perspective, and continue to feel good, whatever life throws your way., defining stress is tougher than you may think. while some events are universally considered stressful (a potentially serious illness like covid-19, a divorce, or a natural disaster, for example), experts say that most stress is actually in the eye of the beholder: what stresses out one person may go unnoticed by another., “it’s more about your resilience and ability to cope than it is about a particular stressful event,” says michelle dossett, md, phd, mph, an assistant professor of medicine at harvard medical school and a staff physician at the benson-henry institute for mind body medicine at massachusetts general hospital in boston., the words "stress" and "anxiety" are often used interchangeably. though the symptoms can feel similar, medically they are different. “sometimes anxiety is triggered by a stressful situation; the two often go hand in hand,” says dr. dossett. “but it’s also possible to feel stressed without feeling anxious.”, so what’s the distinction? “anxiety is more closely associated with consistently worrying or ruminating about things, even when nothing much is going on,” she explains. sometimes, anxiety can be part of a syndrome known as generalized anxiety disorder (gad), a constellation of symptoms that jangle your nervous system and a condition you may experience even when the outside world is at its calmest. stress, on the other hand, tends to be a person’s response to a situation or event, like giving a presentation in front of a crowd, says gupta., certain events are natural stressors (think: the pandemic, a traumatic accident, a cancer diagnosis, a big move, or an unexpected tax payment that’s due). as for the rest of life’s stress-inducers, “it’s really all about interpretation,” says gupta. “what we see with patients is that some event happens, and based on what the patient has experienced in the past, they’ll react with a certain level of stress and discomfort, or be calm.”, the causes of stress can also feel more amorphous. you may experience stress when you feel that you’ve lost your purpose in life or that you’re not relating to friends or a spouse. “the triggers really vary widely,” she says., , , “stress can come from any number of sources, whether relationship issues, actual trauma, or a dialogue in your own head,” says dossett. “whatever the cause, your brain has a specific pathway by which stressors get processed, which involves the activation of the hypothalamic, pituitary, and adrenal axis, followed by the release of cortisol, epinephrine, norepinephrine, and other hormones that affect every single organ in your body.” that’s why it’s so important to be able to manage stress effectively, so you can save that all-hands-on-deck response for the situations that really count., learn more about the most common causes of stress, , , learn more about the most common symptoms of stress, beyond the damage you might do by engaging in unhealthy behaviors, over the long term, stress can have more insidious effects on the body and nervous system. “people who are chronically stressed tend to have an elevated level of the stress hormone cortisol, which causes inflammation,” says haythe., , “it’s hard to say with absolute certainty that stress directly causes these diseases,” says dossett. “usually, there are a number of factors at play. but i do know that people can get high blood pressure in response to stress, or heart arrhythmias; others will have problems in the gastrointestinal tract, like acid reflux or inflammatory bowel disease. i have patients with multiple sclerosis who say that their symptoms started after a particular stressful event,” she says. “stress may not be the precipitating factor for these illnesses, but it can tip people over the edge.”, learn more about how stress affects your body, , instead of reaching for these quick and less-healthy options, consider adding fresh whole foods such as fiber-rich fruits and veggies, fish, nuts, and even dark chocolate to your stress management arsenal. it might also help to put away your phone and focus on eating as a sensory experience. turn on some soft, soothing music, close your eyes between bites, and savor the textures and flavors to reduce anxiety., learn more about how to build a stress-busting diet , fortunately, there are many ways to prevent stress from pushing you over that proverbial edge and jangling your nervous system. while it’s important to focus on the basics of good health — getting seven to nine hours of sleep a night, sticking to a healthy, mediterranean-style diet (fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean protein), and getting about 150 minutes of cardiovascular exercise every week, gupta recommends using any technique that “feels natural and enjoyable, and makes sense in your life.”, , at the benson-henry institute, dossett teaches her patients evidenced-based mind-body skills to reduce anxiety, ranging from mindfulness meditation (apps like headspace and calm make it easy to learn), yoga, and breathing. getting social support is also crucial; there’s nothing like calling a sympathetic friend who can talk you down off the ledge, dosset says., even squeezing a stress ball or playing with your child’s fidget spinner can make you feel good, reduce anxiety, or at least momentarily distract you from what stresses you., “when we’re feeling stressed out, it’s natural to want to withdraw from life, but a more beneficial way of dealing with it is to use coping skills and tools that work for you,” says gupta, “whether that's problem-solving or focusing on your breathing. once you have these skills under your belt, you’ll be able to pull through the next stressful situation more easily.”, learn more about how to manage stress, these sources and sites offer information that can help you lower stress in your life or deal with unavoidable stressors in a healthier way., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., reducing stress is an important part of good health, but can taking supplements really make you feel more at ease? find out which ones may help and which..., here are the best techniques for finding fast stress relief — and for keeping your spirits high in the process., scientists have long been studying stress reappraisal. new research provides more evidence that it works — and stress can be used to help rather than ..., from a professional standpoint, 2020 will always be remembered as the year that pandemic and political stress collided., here are 10 gadgets, devices, apps, and books to help you take a deep breath, meditate, and de-stress in these stressful times., angry mobs terrorizing the capitol building exposed national lawmakers to a level of trauma and stress that most had never experienced before. but what..., put down your phone, laugh with friends, and vote on november 3., the esteemed neuroscientist was a founding member of everyday health’s wellness advisory board., nowhere is the potential damage greater than when chronic stress involves personal relationships and dire illness. yet even then, proven strategies can..., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][everything you ever wanted to know about stress — including how to manage it, why we feel stressed all the time, editor’s picks for combating stress, 4 ways to get started with meditation, why exercise boosts mood and energy, how meditation can improve your mental health, 8 ways to find some me time when overbooked is your norm, how much stress is unhealthy?, how stress helps us survive, when stress turns unhealthy, editor’s picks on the impact of stress, treatment and prevention of heart disease, cortisol: the stress hormone, 4 ways meditation changes the brain, the physical side of stress, what is stress?, what is generalized anxiety disorder (gad)?, what is the difference between stress and anxiety?, the united states of stress, the most common causes of stress, stress and covid-19, editor's picks, is covid-19 anxiety messing with your sleep? 8 tips for getting it back on track, 12 questions answered on how to handle anxiety in the time of covid-19, the lasting impact of covid-19: how will it affect our mental health?, more than half of american workers are experiencing covid-19 anxiety, survey finds, stress and politics, health, and violence, what are the symptoms of ptsd, and how is it diagnosed?, the role of stress hormones, most recent in stress, 7 best supplements that may help reduce stress — and 1 to avoid, is social media busting or boosting your stress?, 5 ways to bust stress in 5 minutes or less, what it feels like to be stressed, emotionally and physically, do i have insomnia? symptoms and diagnosis for the common sleep disorder, why stress makes you tired — and makes you drink more, how stress affects the body, most popular in related conditions, what is a type 2 diabetes friendly diet? a complete guide, 12 celebrities with multiple sclerosis, ptsd and hypertension: what’s the connection?, 11 tips for better digestive health, stress and eating, healthy foods for stress, how to manage stress and soothe your nervous system, what is the mediterranean diet? your ultimate guide to the heart-healthy eating philosophy, editor's picks on resilience, what is resilience? your guide to facing life's challenges, adversities, and crises, everyday health assessment: get your resilience score, 20 tips for building and cultivating your resilience, 9 essential skills that make you resilient, resources we love, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in stress, 7 best supplements that may help reduce stress — and 1 to avoid, 5 ways to bust stress in 5 minutes or less, study shows how to reframe stress and use it to your advantage, mental health 2020 in a nutshell: a psychiatrist reflects on a year of therapy, best stress and anxiety relief products, chaos at the capitol: how do you cope when you witness violence and trauma — even from afar?, 7 strategies for dealing with election stress, bruce mcewen, pioneer researcher on stress, dies at 81, nikita gupta, mph: q&a on stress, dr. janice kiecolt-glaser: q&a on stress’s link to metabolism, marriage, and caregiving, the ultimate expert-approved diet plan for a happier, less-stressed you, how stress affects ankylosing spondylitis — and what you can do about it, burnout: how to avoid it, how to know when you’re burned out, and what to do about it]why stress happens and how to manage it | everyday health[why we feel stressed all the time, how much stress is unhealthy?, how stress helps us survive, when stress turns unhealthy, what is stress?, what is the difference between stress and anxiety?, stress and covid-19,  , stress and politics, health, and violence, the role of stress hormones, learn more about the most common causes of stress, why stress makes you tired — and makes you drink more, learn more about the most common symptoms of stress, learn more about how stress affects your body, healthy foods for stress, learn more about how to build a stress-busting diet , learn more about how to manage stress][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, national institute of mental health, mayo clinic, cleveland clinic, american psychological association, mentalhealth.gov, anxiety and depression association of america, american academy of family physicians' family doctor site, american institute of stress, 5 things you should know about stress. national institute of mental health., stress. anxiety and depression association of america., generalized anxiety disorder: when worry gets out of control. national institute of mental health., how stress affects your health. american psychological association., stress in america: the state of our nation. american psychological association., stress and current events. american psychological association. 2019., stress tip sheet. american psychological association., the implications of covid-19 for mental health and substance use. kaiser family foundation. august 21, 2020., stress symptoms: effects on your body and behavior. mayo clinic. april 4, 2019., chronic inflammation in the etiology of disease across the lifespan. nature medicine. december 5, 2019., why stress causes people to overeat. harvard health publishing. october 13, 2020., stress management and emotional health. cleveland clinic. october 24, 2016., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]