[obesity, heart disease, and diabetes: these are just a few of the health conditions that proponents of the paleolithic diet, or caveman diet, blame on our sedentary lifestyles and modern way of eating, which is loaded with sugar, fat, and processed foods. their proposed solution? cut modern foods from our diet and return to the way our early hunter-gatherer ancestors ate., to get an idea of what that means, we turned to the experts, including loren cordain, phd, a professor emeritus at colorado state university in fort collins, and the author of the paleo diet; erin holley, rd, of the ohio state university wexner medical center in columbus; and lona sandon, phd, rd, an assistant professor of clinical nutrition at the university of texas southwestern medical center in dallas., for starters, to be and stay healthy on the paleo diet, dr. cordain says that you’ll need to exercise regularly while following a strict diet comprised only of foods that can be hunted and gathered., in its purest form, the paleo diet allows you to eat only those foods that humans ate when they first roamed the planet about 2.5 million years ago., , , , note that though nuts and seeds are allowed on this diet, they can be high in calories, and people who want to lose weight will have to limit their nut consumption., related: what is an elimination or exclusion diet?, , , , among their arguments: some of the results were not statistically significant, nor did they show “any important clinical effects.” they concluded that they did not believe that the results of the review showed any evidence in favor of the paleo diet, and they called for more care in reaching health recommendations for the general public., on the paleo diet, you’ll find fewer processed foods, but you’ll also need to cut out all grains, legumes, and most dairy. here’s a closer look at the eating plan., although the paleo diet isn’t proven to work, if you want to give this eating plan a try, you’ll need to prioritize fueling up on lots of natural foods and natural fats, including these options:, similarly, any foods that were not easily available to paleolithic humans are off-limits in this diet, holley explains. that means processed foods — many of which contain added butter, margarine, and sugar — should not be a part of the paleo diet. the same goes for dairy, which may not have been accessible to paleolithic humans, and legumes, which many proponents of the diet believe are not easily digestible by the body., keep in mind that some versions of the paleo diet are less strict than others and allow some dairy products or legumes, like peanuts, holley says., foods to avoid:, learn more about what foods to eat and avoid on the paleo diet, the paleo diet has become one of the most popular eating approaches out there, so you won’t have trouble finding a bounty of paleo-friendly recipes online and on bookshelves (virtual or not!). but if you’re a beginner, consider this one-day sample menu of the paleo diet to get you started., breakfast onion and spinach omelet with liver pâté, lunch tuna wrapped in lettuce with almonds, snack hard-boiled eggs, dinner beef bourguignon, dessert ice cream made from coconut milk, learn more about where to find paleo diet recipe inspiration and get a five-day sample menu, while the paleo diet is certainly not a cure-all, it does come with some potential benefits. but that doesn’t mean it’s for everyone — there are also some risks you should be aware of before diving in., there are a handful of benefits you'll potentially reap from following the paleo diet., first, by eating fruits and vegetables, you’ll get many of the essential vitamins and minerals you need., also, the diet is simple. you eat the foods that are acceptable and avoid those that are not — there’s no prepacked meal plan or diet cycle to stick to., , , exercising regularly can do more than help you maintain a healthy weight. discover the numerous perks of fitting in fitness., but a hunter-gatherer diet can be difficult to maintain, especially long term. because most foods are eaten plain, following the eating approach can get boring after a short time., , , and again, there’s no concrete scientific proof that the paleo diet wards off disease, sandon says. any evidence of its benefits is anecdotal. although some studies seem to support the benefits of the paleo diet, many scientists still believe we don’t yet have enough evidence to know whether the eating approach is totally healthy and without risk. “nobody knows the long-term effects of this diet because no one has researched it to any degree,” sandon says. it’s not really a new concept; instead it’s one that’s been recycled through the years, she says., , , , learn more about the possible benefits and risks of the paleo diet, whether you’re looking to lose weight or manage symptoms of a chronic disease, dieting isn’t one size fits all. this detailed list will teach you the pros and cons of the most popular plans out there today., , , , the takeaway: essentially, there aren’t enough encouraging study results for experts to make a formal recommendation for people with diabetes to try the paleo diet just yet. if you want to try the plan with the aim of managing your blood sugar, be sure to clear it with your healthcare provider first., learn more about how the paleo diet may affect type 2 diabetes, as with type 2 diabetes, the paleo diet may or may not be good for your heart. it comes down to how you follow the eating approach., , , the gist? talk to your doctor before trying the paleo diet for heart disease. he or she will be able to tell you if it’s a good fit — and if so, how you should approach the plan for optimal health., learn more about the risks and benefits of the paleo diet for the heart, although research on the paleo diet’s possible role in helping manage autoimmune diseases is limited at best, researchers’ and paleo proponents’ interest in this prospect isn’t waning. there’s even a niche paleo diet for this very purpose called the autoimmune paleo diet., while proponents of the paleo diet say they’ve anecdotally seen the diet help control inflammatory bowel disease, psoriasis, eczema, multiple sclerosis, celiac disease, and hashimoto’s thyroiditis, research on these effects is lacking., definitely don’t expect paleo to be a panacea for any autoimmune disease you may be managing, and be sure to consult your doctor before diving in should you try it., learn more about how the paleo diet may affect autoimmune diseases, you could lose weight following a paleolithic diet — and quickly, depending on how strictly you adhere to eating the foods from the allowed list and how much physical exercise you add to your daily routine., in the long term, you have to be sure you’re getting calcium and other nutrients you’re missing by not having dairy products and certain grains. some paleo-approved foods, such as salmon and spinach, contain calcium, so you have to be sure you’re including them in your diet. it would be a good idea to check with a registered dietitian, too, to make sure you’re meeting your calcium and other nutrient needs., on the whole, the paleo diet is not a bad choice, holley says. if someone follows the diet by cutting out processed food, processed meats, and sugar-sweetened beverages and swaps them for more fruits, vegetables, and healthy fats, they’re likely to see some health benefits., “one thing to consider is how extreme you want to take it,” says holley, noting that some versions of the diet are more restrictive than others, limiting foods like dairy or peanut butter. it could be overwhelming to cut out a bunch of food groups all at once. holley suggests trying small incremental changes instead., “i’m always of the mindset that if we completely change everything at once, it’s less likely to stick. if we make gradual changes, we’re more likely to hang onto these things,” holley says., overall, the diet is not for everyone, but it could be helpful to some, holley says. “it’s important for each person to carefully understand the diet before they jump in.”, before making any changes to your diet or exercise plan, be sure to speak with your physician to make sure that the changes you would like to make align with your personal health needs., learn more about what to expect if you try the paleo diet, the paleo diet, loren cordain, phd, is the founder of the paleo diet movement and a professor emeritus at colorado state university in fort collins. his website has all the info you need to get started on your paleo journey, from “is it paleo?” to the latest research on the caveman diet., diet review: paleo diet for weight loss , leave it to harvard university's t.h. chan school of public health to deliver an unbiased look at the research on paleo and the benefits and risks of putting the diet into practice in real life. if you’re looking to learn the scientific truth about this eating plan, you’ll want to check out this resource., paleomg, paleomg is run by juli bauer, who has also published several cookbooks. her recipes are well loved (like the classic “almost five-ingredient pizza spaghetti pie”), and include ideas for crock-pot, instant pot, and air fryer, as well as vegetarian, holiday, and party dishes — inspiration for paleo-friendly fare no matter the occasion., paleo leap meal planner, it can be tough to remember what is and isn’t allowed when going paleo, so a meal planner helps take out the guesswork. this one, by paleo leap, includes 1,500 recipes that are gluten-free, grain-free, legume-free, sugar-free, soy-free, and corn-free. also free? the app, which you can download on google play or the app store., stupid simple paleo tracker, this app provides a handy visual food list (so there’s no question what’s allowed and what’s not), plus a calorie and macronutrient tracker so you can better work toward your goals and chart your progress. find it on itunes, where it’s free with in-app purchases and has a 4.2-star rating, or in the google play store, where it’s also free and has a 3.7-star rating., paleohacks , you have questions — and the vast community of paleo devotees has answers. from how to pair paleo with fasting, to psychological side effects, to why avoiding oatmeal is a must, you’ll find that connecting with like-minded members will help you feel supported., the paleo solution podcast, robb wolf, author of the paleo solution and wired to eat, has a 4.7-star rating on itunes. if you’re just tuning in and need to get caught up, you’ll have over 400 weekly episodes to choose from. topics include what to eat on paleo, how to try intermittent fasting, and tips for exercising., for more of our feel-good podcast picks, check out our article., additional reporting by stephanie bucklin and melinda carstensen., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., the incredibly popular diet encourages eating like our hunter-gatherer ancestors. but is it right for you?, going paleo gets a whole lot easier (and tastier) when these must-have products are stocked in your kitchen., eating like a caveman is a popular way for stars to get in shape and slim down for roles., meal planning and prepping can be a challenge on the paleo diet — these services can help you meet your health and lifestyle goals., whole, unprocessed foods — including fruits, veggies, lean proteins, and healthy fats — are staples in the paleo diet, while all grains, most dairy, sugar..., prebiotic-rich foods help probiotics thrive in your gut. try this recipe for ways to incorporate more of these types of fiber into your diet., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][the paleo diet: how it works, what to eat, and the risks, most recent in diet and nutrition, 7 paleo diet foods you need in your pantry, 11 celebrities who have reportedly used the paleo diet to lose weight, the best paleo diet meal delivery services to make eating like a caveman a cinch, what does research say about the paleo diet?, foods to eat and avoid on the paleo diet, what to eat, what to avoid, editor’s picks in diet and nutrition, can the paleo diet help treat ulcerative colitis?, how the paleo diet helped my family get healthy, 8 smart swaps to borrow from the paleo diet, can you beat ms with the paleo diet?, a sample menu of what to eat on the paleo diet, possible risks and benefits of trying the paleo diet, potential pros of following the paleo diet: it’s nutritious and easy to follow, and it involves exercise, 10 amazing benefits of exercise, possible cons of following the paleo diet: cost, difficulty, and limited evidence, the best and worst diet plans for weight loss, heart health, and more, if you have diabetes, is paleo a good choice for blood sugar management?, editor’s picks on a type 2 diabetes diet, how to build a type 2 diabetes meal plan, 7 easy breakfast ideas for people with type 2 diabetes, the best and worst foods for people with type 2 diabetes, 6 processed foods you can surprisingly eat if you have type 2 diabetes, is the paleo diet good for heart health?, can the paleo diet help you manage autoimmune diseases?, most popular in diet and nutrition, 5 reasons why you should eat oatmeal every day, 8 foods high in magnesium, 7 healthiest salad dressings for weight loss, what to eat and avoid on the ketogenic diet, what to expect if you try the paleo diet, more eating approaches like the paleo diet, paleo diet resources we love, favorite resources for info about the paleo diet, favorite paleo diet blog, favorite resource for paleo diet meal planning, favorite paleo diet app, favorite paleo community, favorite paleo podcast, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in paleo diet, what are the benefits and risks of the paleo diet?, 7 paleo diet foods you need in your pantry, can the paleo diet help fight autoimmune diseases? a look at its possible effects on 5 conditions, can the paleo diet help prevent heart disease?, eating paleo: a sample menu, recipes, and book list to help you eat like our ancestors, 11 celebrities who have reportedly used the paleo diet to lose weight, the best paleo diet meal delivery services to make eating like a caveman a cinch, paleo diet health effects: what to expect in the short and long term, a detailed paleo diet food list of what to eat and avoid, prebiotic-rich salad with lemon vinaigrette, 10 scientific benefits of the blue zones diet, the weight loss plans to try and the fad diets to skip for results, what is a flexitarian diet? a complete beginner’s guide]paleo diet 101: beginner’s guide to what to eat and how it works | everyday health[related: what is an elimination or exclusion diet?, what does research say about the paleo diet?, what to eat, what to avoid, learn more about what foods to eat and avoid on the paleo diet, breakfast, lunch, snack , dinner, dessert, learn more about where to find paleo diet recipe inspiration and get a five-day sample menu, potential pros of following the paleo diet: it’s nutritious and easy to follow, and it involves exercise, possible cons of following the paleo diet: cost, difficulty, and limited evidence, learn more about the possible benefits and risks of the paleo diet, learn more about how the paleo diet may affect type 2 diabetes, learn more about the risks and benefits of the paleo diet for the heart, learn more about how the paleo diet may affect autoimmune diseases, learn more about what to expect if you try the paleo diet, favorite resources for info about the paleo diet, the paleo diet, diet review: paleo diet for weight loss , favorite paleo diet blog, paleomg, favorite resource for paleo diet meal planning, paleo leap meal planner, favorite paleo diet app, stupid simple paleo tracker, favorite paleo community, paleohacks , favorite paleo podcast, the paleo solution podcast][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, lean cuts of beef, pork, and poultry, preferably grass-fed, organic, or free-range selections, game animals, such as quail, venison, and bison, eggs, but no more than six a week, and preferably free-range, fish, including shellfish, fruit, such as strawberries, cantaloupe, mango, and figs, nonstarchy vegetables, such as asparagus, onions, peppers, and pumpkin, nuts and seeds, including almonds, cashews, walnuts, and pumpkin seeds, olive oil, flaxseed oil, and walnut oil, in moderation, all dairy products, including milk, cheese, yogurt, and butter, cereal grains, such as wheat, rye, rice, and barley, legumes, like beans, peanuts, and peas, starchy vegetables, such as potatoes (and some even say sweet potatoes), sweets, including all forms of candy as well as honey and sugar, artificial sweeteners, sugary soft drinks and fruit juices, processed and cured meats, such as bacon, deli meats, and hot dogs, highly processed foods, slavin jl. dietary fiber and body weight. nutrition. march 2005., balance food and activity. national heart, lung, and blood institute. february 13, 2013., champagne cm, broyles st, moran l, et al. dietary intakes associated with successful weight loss and maintenance during the weight loss maintenance trial. journal of the academy of nutrition and dietetics. december 2011., manheimer ew, van zuuren ej, fedorowicz z, pijl h, et al. paleolithic nutrition for metabolic syndrome: systematic review and meta-analysis. american journal of clinical nutrition. october 2015., fenton tr, fenton cj. paleo diet still lacks evidence. american journal of clinical nutrition. september 2016., pitt ce. cutting through the paleo hype: the evidence for the palaeolithic diet. global health. january–february 2016., willett wc, koplan jp, nugent r, et al. prevention of chronic disease by means of diet and lifestyle changes. in disease control priorities in developing countries. 2006., physical activity for a healthy weight. centers for disease control and prevention. may 15, 2015., the cost of organic food. consumer reports. march 19, 2015., metzgar m, et al. the feasibility of a paleo diet for low-income consumers. nutrition research. june 2011., calcium. national institutes of health. march 26, 2020., o’sullivan t, hafekost k, mitro f, lawrence d. food sources of saturated fat and association with mortality: a meta-analysis. american journal of public health. september 2013., masharani u, sherchan p, schloetter m, et al. metabolic and physiologic effects from consuming a hunter-gatherer (paleolithic)-type diet in type 2 diabetes. european journal of clinical nutrition. april 2015., murphy aj, bijl n, yvan-charvet l, et al. cholesterol efflux in megakaryocyte progenitors suppresses platelet production and thrombocytosis. nature medicine. april 2013., diabetes and your heart. centers for disease control and prevention. january 31, 2020., whole grains and fiber. american heart association. october 11, 2016., diabetes, heart disease, and stroke. national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases. february 2017., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]