[, , , , , , , , , , , depending on your health needs, you can choose from two forms of the dash diet., the standard dash diet this plan limits sodium consumption to 2,300 milligrams (mg) per day., the lower-sodium dash diet this version calls for limiting sodium consumption to 1,500 mg per day., , , , you can track your nutrient and calorie intake with the help of various apps, such as the lose it! calorie counter, which is free to download on the app store and google play., the dash diet works by limiting not only sodium but also saturated fat — both of which can be detrimental to heart health, says kimberley rose-francis, rdn, cdces, a dietitian and diabetes educator in sebring, florida. a diet that's heavy in salt can drive up blood pressure, which puts unnecessary strain on the heart muscle, rose-francis says. saturated fat, on the other hand, can increase cholesterol levels. “cholesterol has the potential of blocking or decreasing the flow of blood to the heart,” rose-francis says, adding that restricted blood flow can lead to heart attack and stroke., , , , , , breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner, breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner, breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner, breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner, breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner, breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner, breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner, , there are several benefits to the dash diet., , , , , , , , there are few drawbacks to the dash diet. but some people may be troubled by the fact that it does not outline a specific way to lose weight., “it is not designed for weight loss, per se, but it offers different numbers of servings for the food groups for different calorie levels, so you could follow a [more targeted] weight loss diet with this plan,” says nancy l. cohen, phd, rd, a professor emerita of nutrition at the university of massachusetts in amherst., , research suggests the dash diet can be a practical, sustainable, and healthy eating plan for lowering blood pressure, and potentially losing weight, in the short and long term., , , additional reporting by melinda carstensen and madeline r. vann, mph., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., a diet rich in unprocessed carbs, veggies, and seafood — and maybe a short fast every few months — could add significant years to your life., fizzy water is more popular than ever, but does it hydrate you the same way still water does? read on to see what experts say about carbonation and hydration..., weight loss may be similar when people focus only on calorie reduction and when they combine this with intermittent fasting, a new study suggests., over 770,000 of the kitchen appliances have been sold in the u.s. and canada., researchers say greater oversight is needed to ensure that label claims are truthful., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][what is the dash diet? a guide to the scientific plan for lowering blood pressure, most recent in diet & nutrition, 8 creative taco recipes bursting with nutrition, want to live to 100? the answer may lie in the ‘longevity diet’, does sparkling water count as fluid?, why intermittent fasting may not help when you’re already cutting calories, whom is the dash diet good for exactly, and what variations are there?, high-flavanol diet linked to lower blood pressure, dash diet types, 10 sneaky sodium bombs, how does the dash diet lower blood pressure?, editor’s picks on eating for heart health, a salt substitute may cut stroke risk in people with high blood pressure or prior stroke, 9 ways to prevent heart disease, is salt bad for people with diabetes?, fda asks restaurants and food manufacturers to use less salt, a 7-day sample dash diet menu you can follow, day 1, day 2, day 3, day 4, day 5, day 6, day 7, 10 tricks for getting enough fruits and veggies, possible pros of following the dash diet: what the research says, the dash diet tends to be sustainable, it’s designed to help lower high blood pressure, 5 lifestyle changes to help you lower blood pressure, following the diet may reduce your risk of certain diseases , it can help boost heart health overall, improved management of type 2 diabetes , better nutrition, food as medicine: what it means and how to reap the benefits, the possible cons of following the dash diet: notes from experts, most popular in diet and nutrition, whole30: beginner’s guide, what to eat and avoid, advantages, and more, 10 healthy foods that are great sources of iron, 11 best and worst oils for your health, 7 potential benefits of adding garlic to your recipes and meals, the potential short- and long-term effects of the dash diet, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in diet & nutrition, the blue zones diet: a complete scientific guide, 10 scientific benefits of the blue zones diet, want to live to 100? the answer may lie in the ‘longevity diet’, sea greens 101: types, benefits, where to buy them, and more, does sparkling water count as fluid?, why intermittent fasting may not help when you’re already cutting calories, best buy recalls insignia air fryers and air fryer ovens after reports of fires, quercetin: what it is, how much you need, and where to find it, all about moringa (drumstick tree): a complete scientific guide, ‘no antibiotics’ labels on beef may not always be accurate, all about grapefruit: nutrition facts, health benefits, types, and more, the boiled-egg diet: does it really work?, the ultimate guide to eggs: what’s in them, why they’re good for you, and how to prepare them]dash diet: a guide to the scientific plan for lowering blood pressure | everyday health[dash diet types, the standard dash diet, the lower-sodium dash diet, day 1, day 2, day 3, day 4, day 5, day 6, day 7, the dash diet tends to be sustainable, it’s designed to help lower high blood pressure, following the diet may reduce your risk of certain diseases , it can help boost heart health overall, improved management of type 2 diabetes , better nutrition][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, 6 to 8 servings of grains, preferably whole grains, 6 or fewer servings of meat, poultry, and fish, 4 to 5 servings of veggies, 4 to 5 servings of fruit, 2 to 3 servings of low-fat or fat-free dairy products, 2 to 3 servings of fat or oils, total fat is about 27 percent of calories, saturated fat is 6 percent of calories or less, protein is about 18 percent of calories, carbohydrates are about 55 percent of calories, cholesterol is limited to 150 mg, fiber is 30 grams (g) or more, 1 whole-wheat bagel with 2 tablespoons (tbsp) peanut butter (no salt added), 1 medium orange, 1 cup fat-free milk, decaffeinated coffee, spinach salad made with 4 cups of fresh spinach leaves, 1 sliced pear, ½ cup canned mandarin orange sections, ⅓ cup slivered almonds, and 2 tbsp red wine vinaigrette, 12 reduced-sodium wheat crackers, 1 cup fat-free milk, 1 cup fat-free, low-calorie yogurt, 4 vanilla wafers, 3 ounces (oz) herb-crusted baked cod, ½ cup brown rice pilaf with vegetables, ½ cup steamed green beans, 1 small sourdough roll with 2 teaspoons (tsp) olive oil, 1 cup fresh berries with chopped mint, herbal iced tea, 1 cup fresh mixed fruits topped with 1 cup fat-free, low-calorie vanilla-flavored yogurt, and ⅓ cup walnuts, 1 bran muffin with 1 tsp trans-fat-free margarine, 1 cup fat-free milk, herbal tea, curried chicken wrap made with a whole-wheat tortilla, ⅔ cup chopped chicken, ½ cup chopped apple, 1½ tbsp light mayonnaise, and ½ tsp curry powder, ½ cup raw baby carrots, 1 cup fat-free milk, trail mix made with ¼ cup raisins, about 22 unsalted mini twist pretzels, and 2 tbsp sunflower seeds, 1 cup cooked whole-wheat spaghetti with 1 cup marinara sauce, no added salt, 2 cups mixed salad greens topped with 1 tbsp low-fat caesar dressing, 1 small whole-wheat roll and 1 tsp olive oil, 1 nectarine, sparkling water, ¾ cup bran flakes cereal with 1 cup low-fat milk, 1 medium banana, 1 slice whole-wheat bread with 1 tsp trans-fat-free margarine, 1 cup orange juice, tuna salad made with ½ cup drained, unsalted water-packed tuna, 2 tbsp light mayonnaise, 15 grapes, and ¼ cup diced celery served on top of 2½ cups romaine lettuce, 8 melba toast crackers, 1 cup fat-free milk, 1 cup light yogurt, 1 medium peach, beef and vegetable kebab, made with 3 oz of beef and 1 cup of peppers, onions, mushrooms, and cherry tomatoes, 1 cup cooked wild rice, ⅓ cup pecans, 1 cup pineapple chunks, cran-raspberry spritzer made with 4 oz cran-raspberry juice and 4 to 8 oz sparkling water, 1 cup oatmeal topped with 1 tsp cinnamon, 1 slice whole-wheat toast with 1 tsp trans-fat-free margarine, 1 banana, 1 cup fat-free milk, ¾ cup chicken salad with 2 slices whole wheat bread and 1 tbsp dijon mustard, salad with ½ cup cucumber slices, ½ cup tomato wedges, 1 tbsp sunflower seeds, and 1 tsp low-calorie italian dressing, ½ cup fruit cocktail, juice pack, ⅓ cup unsalted almonds, ¼ cup raisins, ½ cup fat-free, no sugar added fruit yogurt, 3 oz roast beef with 2 tbsp fat-free beef gravy, 1 cup green beans sautéed with ½ tsp canola oil, 1 small baked potato with 1 tbsp fat-free sour cream, 1 tbsp reduced fat cheddar cheese, and 1 tbsp chopped scallions, 1 small apple, 1 cup low-fat milk, ½ cup instant oatmeal, 1 mini whole-wheat bagel with 1 tbsp peanut butter, 1 medium banana, 1 cup low-fat milk, chicken breast sandwich with 3 oz of skinless chicken breast, 2 slices whole-wheat bread, 1 slice reduced-fat cheddar cheese, 1 large leaf of romaine lettuce, 2 tomato slices, and 1 tbsp low-fat mayo, 1 cup cantaloupe, 1 cup apple juice, ⅓ cup unsalted almonds, ¼ cup dried apricots, 1 cup fat-free, no sugar added fruit yogurt, 1 cup spaghetti with ¾ cup vegetarian spaghetti sauce and 3 tbsp parmesan cheese, spinach salad with 1 cup fresh spinach leaves, ¼ cup grated carrots, ¼ cup sliced mushrooms, and 1 tbsp vinaigrette dressing, ½ cup corn (cooked from frozen), ½ cup canned pears, juice pack, 1 slice whole-wheat bread with 1 tsp margarine, 1 cup fat-free, no sugar added fruit yogurt, 1 medium peach, ½ cup grape juice, ham and cheese sandwich with 2 oz low-fat, low-sodium ham, 2 slices whole-wheat bread, 1 large leaf of romaine lettuce, 2 slices tomato, 1 slice reduced-fat cheddar cheese, and 1 tbsp low-fat mayonnaise, 1 cup carrot sticks, ⅓ cup unsalted almonds, ¼ cup dried apricots, 1 cup low-fat milk, 1 cup apple juice, chicken and spanish rice, 1 cup green peas sautéed with 1 tsp canola oil, 1 cup cantaloupe, 1 cup low-fat milk, 1 low-fat granola bar, 1 medium banana, ½ cup fat-free, no sugar added fruit yogurt, 1 cup orange juice, 1 cup low-fat milk, turkey breast sandwich with 3 oz cooked turkey, 2 slices whole-wheat bread, 1 large leaf romaine lettuce, 2 slices tomato, 2 tsp low-fat mayonnaise, and 1 tbsp dijon mustard, 1 cup steamed broccoli (cooked from frozen), 1 medium orange, 2 tbsp unsalted peanuts, 1 cup low-fat milk, ¼ cup dried apricots, 3 oz baked fish, 1 cup scallion rice, spinach sauté with ½ frozen spinach, 2 tsp canola oil, and 1 tbsp slivered, unsalted almonds, 1 cup carrots (cooked from frozen), 1 small whole-wheat roll with 1 tsp margarine, 1 small cookie, dash diet. u.s. news & world report., heart disease facts. centers for disease control and prevention. september 27, 2021., 5 surprising facts about high blood pressure. centers for disease control and prevention. november 9, 2020., 2021 heart disease and stroke statistics update fact sheet. american heart association. 2021., dash eating plan. national heart, lung, and blood institute., blumenthal ja, hinderliter al, smith pj, et al. effects of lifestyle modification on patients with resistant hypertension. circulation. september 27, 2021., understanding blood pressure readings. american heart association., choosemyplate.gov. united states department of agriculture., wang z, bergeron n, levison bs, et al. impact of chronic dietary red meat, white meat, or non-meat protein on trimethylamine n-oxide metabolism and renal excretion in healthy men and women. european heart journal. february 2019., dash eating plan. national heart, lung, and blood institute., nutrition and healthy eating. mayo clinic. june 25, 2021., campbell ap. dash eating plan: an eating pattern for diabetes management. diabetes spectrum. may 2017., sample menus for the dash diet. mayo clinic. april 21, 2020., a week with the dash eating plan. national heart, lung, and blood institute., zade mr, telkabadi mh, bahmani f, et al. the effects of dash diet on weight loss and metabolic status in adults with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: a randomized clinical trial. liver international. april 2016., juraschek sp, miller 3rd er, weaver cm, et al. effects of sodium reduction and the dash diet in relation to baseline blood pressure. journal of the american college of cardiology. december 12, 2017., mozaffari h, ajabshir s, alizadeh s. dietary approaches to stop hypertension and risk of chronic kidney disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies. clinical nutrition. july 2020., hirahatake km, jiang l, wong nd, et al. diet quality and cardiovascular disease risk in postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes mellitus: the women's health initiative. journal of the american heart association. september 19, 2019., hinderliter a, babyak ma, sherwood a, et al. the dash diet and insulin sensitivity. current hypertension reports. february 2011., dash diet: tips for shopping and cooking. mayo clinic. july 1, 2021., dietary fiber: essential for a healthy diet. mayo clinic. january 6, 2021., juraschek sp, kovell lc, appel lj, et al. effects of diet and sodium reduction on cardiac injury, strain, and inflammation: the dash-sodium trial. journal of the american college of cardiology. june 1, 2021., understanding the dash diet. medlineplus. august 13, 2020., campos cl, wood a, burke gl, et al. dietary approaches to stop hypertension diet concordance and incident heart failure: the multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis. american journal of preventive medicine. april 17, 2019., juraschek sp, kovell lc, appel lj, et al. effects of diet and sodium reduction on cardiac injury, strain, and inflammation: the dash-sodium trial. journal of the american college of cardiology. june 2021., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]