[it is possible to have in-person (!) partnered and multi-partnered sex in the middle of the pandemic without contracting covid-19. here's how., we break down everything from setting boundaries around covid-19 concerns, virtual and physically distant first date ideas, conversation tips, and more., pleasure seekers are leaning into cuffing season with more fervor than ever before because it’s actually one of the safest ways to date right now. really!, with vaccination rollout underway and new covid-19 cases on the decline, many sti testing sites are returning to their regular schedule and capacity., to put it simply, sex positivity is a way of being that replaces shame with pleasure and judgment with freedom. here’s how to get started., you’ve likely been taught a sh*t ton of myths about your sexuality. today we’re going to bust one of them: that men and women experience sexuality differently., to be blunt: there’s no good reason for someone to be turned off by vaginal wetness. and if they are, it’s because they don’t understand how the body works., sexual trauma doesn't always involve physical force. coercion, for example, occurs if someone pressures you into having sexual contact that you don't want., there's no one-size-fits-all approach to self-care. here's how to build a plan that actually works for you., one minute, you’re drifting off. the next, you’re confused af after getting it on with shrek. so what do sex dreams mean, especially if they’re, uh, like that?, hiding your feelings may be easy, but it can lead to bigger problems. here’s why you do it, how it affects health, and ways to deal with emotions in a healthy way., whether you masturbate is up to you. it doesn’t harm your body, but it’s okay not to if it isn't something you want to do. need more info? we break it down., accepting your body and loving it aren't mutually exclusive ideas, but body neutrality offers a firm middle ground between body hate and body love., the phrase "feminine hygiene" belongs in the trash. but that doesn't mean vagina owners shouldn't prioritize their genital health — they should! here's how., wondering what an erection is? keep reading, because we're answering all your burning questions here. (not that your boner should burn, btw.), if you're reading this because a sex toy is currently stuck where the sun don't shine, take a deep breath. here's how to get it out and prevent it moving forward., self-identification — not relationship status or dating or sexual history — is what determines whether someone is queer. queer is queer is queer enough., the inherent queerness of not desiring sex and not centering it in one’s life can teach people a lot about attraction, libido, desirability, and so much more., sexual fluidity offers a better, more accurate explanation for what people have, in the past, stereotyped and stigmatized as "confusion." here's what it looks like., familiarizing yourself with language that describes different types of sexual and romantic feelings and orientations can help you, your partners, and your friends navigate and understand the many ways people experience and identify their sexuality. let's get started., without constantly being around people who immediately assume i’m a woman, i feel stronger in the magic and beauty of my nonbinary identity., agender is defined as not having a gender. some describe it as having a “lack of gender,” while others describe themselves as being gender neutral., when deciding whether chest binding is right for you, it’s important to take both the positive outcomes and potential risks into consideration., language and labels are important parts of understanding your gender — as well as knowing how to affirm and support that of other folks! we break it down., answers to the question “what does sex feel like?” range from poetic and adjective laden to nondescript and boring. here’s what you *really* need to know., whether you’re looking to remedy pelvic pain or experience more pleasure, cbd suppositories may help. here's how to get started., a few things can decrease penile sensation, from the way a person masturbates to lifestyle habits and hormone imbalances. here’s how to get back on track., read on to learn the benefits of getting it on while feeling bleh. plus, 17 sex positions for low self-confidence to try., watching porn can be pleasurable, affirming, and arousing. but you need to find content you enjoy (and are paying for!) for that to be true. here's how., probiotics aren’t a one-size-fits-all fix for your gut or libido. but they can be an incredibly beneficial part of a holistic treatment plan., sexual pleasure can change as you approach or pass menopause. but creativity, communication, and a willingness to try things can create a satisfying sex life., the best way to start figuring out which pleasure products to add to your sex toy bucket list is to think about the types of sensation you already enjoy., we’ve got some good news: it’s actually not possible to be bad in bed. really! but there are ways to be a better lover. here's how to up your game., you don’t have to be an erotica or fanfic author to crush the dirty talking game. all you need is a little confidence, a willing partner, and this guide., making the decision to go bareback during sex isn’t something you do on a whim. the consequences could be severe., nothing halts pleasure quite like pressure. so if you’re feeling stressed about using a vibrator right, be assured that so long as you’re feeling good, you’re doing a-ohhh-kay., we’re talking safety, cleanliness, a lot of lube, and some major arousal to help make anal sex more pleasure than pain. here's how to prepare., psa: anyone can have a threesome. here's how to talk to your partner, find a third (or couple), what to do during, and more., as orgasmic as pegging can feel, it isn't for everyone. if you don’t want to sport a strap-or take it anally, there are plenty of ways to get pleasure., nothing halts pleasure quite like pressure. so if you’re feeling stressed about using a dildo right, be assured that so long as you’re feeling good, you’re doing a-o-kay., if you've had unprotected sex or experienced condom failure, there are a number of things you can do to prevent pregnancy and protect against stis and hiv., there isn’t enough research to link weight to lowered plan b effectiveness, so if you’re at or over the limit, you can still take it. here are your options., taking hiv prep can be highly effective in lowering your risk of contracting hiv and transmitting it to partners. learn more., there’s no limit to how often you can take plan b and other emergency contraception (ec) pills. you can and should take plan b and other ec pills as often as you need without worrying about long-term complications. here’s what you need to know about potential side effects, common misconceptions, and more., we break down how often you should test for stis and what to expect when you do, plus highlight some of the best free or low-cost test centers in all 50 states., talking to a partner about stis doesn’t have to be a cringe-worthy affair. sex is normal, stis are more common than ever, and there’s no shame in wanting to protect yourself or your partner., stis and stds aren’t the same thing. really! but if you thought they were, you’re not the only one. the terms are often used interchangeably., no matter what kind of sex you’re having, it’s important to know your sti status. that way you can treat any genital or nongenital sti you may have and share your status with your partner(s) so you can have safer sex!, we break down your options for birth control and how to get them, plus highlight some of the best free or low-cost providers in all 50 states and online., people who are assigned female at birth — including transgender men taking testosterone — can take hormonal birth control pills safely. here's how., hormonal contraceptives don't cause infertility, no matter which method you use or how long you've been using it. here's what you need to know., hormonal birth control is more likely to help pms symptoms than make them worse, but that’s not the case for everyone. here’s what you need to know., we break down misconceptions, explain what to expect with each type, and share where to best access a legal abortion wherever you are in the united states., you’ll find plenty of conflicting information about abortion on the internet, including when and where you can have the procedure done. we’re here to help., paying attention to changes in your body and cycle can help you recognize early signs of pregnancy while you have time to end the pregnancy, if you choose., everyone's experience is different. whether an abortion hurts depends a lot on your overall health, how far along the pregnancy is, and the type of abortion you have. your pain tolerance is also a factor. some people compare the process to menstrual cramps, while others report more discomfort. here's what to expect., sexual assault is a broad term that encompasses many different experiences. if you believe you've been sexually assaulted or are the victim of a sexual crime, know it isn't your fault. we hope this guide can serve as a resource in this time of need and answer any questions you may have about what to do next., in the aftermath of an assault, you may have a lot of questions. chief among them may be, “was that rape?” we'll walk you through the difference between enthusiastic, continuous, and coerced consent as well explore some common scenarios to help you understand when a rape may have happened and what steps you can take., if you think you might be pregnant — and you don’t want to be — it can be scary. but remember, whatever happens, you aren't alone and you have options. we’re here to help you figure out what to do next, from choosing emergency contraception and charting your menstrual cycle to taking a pregnancy test and beyond., abortion is one way to deal with an unintended pregnancy, but it isn't the only way. learn about the alternatives, including adoption and legal guardianship., whether you’re a first-time buyer or a seasoned pro, sex toy shopping can be a little overwhelming. we called on three experts and asked them to share their picks for all erogenous zones., whether you’re looking for a cock ring to help with erection dysfunction or just want to beef things up, we’ve got what you need. here are the 15 best., we tapped experts and looked at user reviews to find sex toys for all that are inconspicuous, quiet, and able to do their job, which is getting you off., the joy of sex toys doesn't start and stop with vibrators! read on if you're ready to incorporate toys a little more… advanced, such as ball gags, chastity belts, and nipple clamps., whether you’re looking for a pump to help with erection problems or want to beef things up down there, we’ve got what you need. here are the 15 best pumps., when it comes to toying around in your tush, there’s something for every body. just remember to use plenty of lube, go at your own pace, and relax!, penis sleeves offer a plethora of pleasure possibilities and can be an invaluable tool for people with erection difficulties. here are 15 of the best., far more than just sex dungeon decor for the kinkiest amongst us, sex furniture can be enjoyed by rompers of all flavors — so-called vanilla included., our brands][covid-19, sex qs, mind body, identity, pleasure, how to, morning after, stis, birth control, abortion, help, shop]sexual health for every body[][health conditions, discover, plan, connect, shop, covid-19, sex qs, mind body, identity, pleasure, how to, morning after, stis, birth control, abortion, help, shop, , , , , a realistic guide to safer sex during covid-19 it is possible to have in-person (!) partnered and multi-partnered sex in the middle of the pandemic without contracting covid-19. here's how.read more, , ready to date during the pandemic? here are some tips for a successful… we break down everything from setting boundaries around covid-19 concerns, virtual and physically distant first date ideas, conversation tips, and more.read more, a first-timer’s guide to cuffing season — in a pandemic pleasure seekers are leaning into cuffing season with more fervor than ever before because it’s actually one of the safest ways to date right now. really!read more, how to get tested for stis during the covid-19 pandemic with vaccination rollout underway and new covid-19 cases on the decline, many sti testing sites are returning to their regular schedule and capacity. read more, what does it actually mean to be ‘sex positive’? to put it simply, sex positivity is a way of being that replaces shame with pleasure and judgment with freedom. here’s how to get started.read more, do men and women experience sexuality differently? you’ve likely been taught a sh*t ton of myths about your sexuality. today we’re going to bust one of them: that men and women experience sexuality differently. read more, is it possible to be ‘too wet’? is this really a turn-off? to be blunt: there’s no good reason for someone to be turned off by vaginal wetness. and if they are, it’s because they don’t understand how the body works. read more, what does sexual coercion look like? sexual trauma doesn't always involve physical force. coercion, for example, occurs if someone pressures you into having sexual contact that you don't want.read more, how to make a self-care checklist that actually works for you there's no one-size-fits-all approach to self-care. here's how to build a plan that actually works for you.read more, are your sex dreams trying to tell you something? one minute, you’re drifting off. the next, you’re confused af after getting it on with shrek. so what do sex dreams mean, especially if they’re, uh, like that?read more, it’s tempting to mask your emotions, but it won’t do you (or anyone… hiding your feelings may be easy, but it can lead to bigger problems. here’s why you do it, how it affects health, and ways to deal with emotions in a healthy way.read more, does masturbation have positive or negative effects on the brain? whether you masturbate is up to you. it doesn’t harm your body, but it’s okay not to if it isn't something you want to do. need more info? we break it down.read more, how to shift from ‘body positivity’ to ‘body neutrality’ — and why you should accepting your body and loving it aren't mutually exclusive ideas, but body neutrality offers a firm middle ground between body hate and body love.read more, so-called ‘feminine’ hygiene is important for anyone who has a vagina the phrase "feminine hygiene" belongs in the trash. but that doesn't mean vagina owners shouldn't prioritize their genital health — they should! here's how.read more, what is an erection? a first-timer’s guide to getting hard wondering what an erection is? keep reading, because we're answering all your burning questions here. (not that your boner should burn, btw.)read more, yes, some sex toys can get ‘stuck’ inside you — but most won’t. here’s… if you're reading this because a sex toy is currently stuck where the sun don't shine, take a deep breath. here's how to get it out and prevent it moving forward.read more, yes, you're ‘queer enough’ — so call or label yourself whatever feels right self-identification — not relationship status or dating or sexual history — is what determines whether someone is queer. queer is queer is queer enough.read more, being asexual and being sex-positive aren’t mutually exclusive the inherent queerness of not desiring sex and not centering it in one’s life can teach people a lot about attraction, libido, desirability, and so much more.read more, what does it mean to be sexually fluid? sexual fluidity offers a better, more accurate explanation for what people have, in the past, stereotyped and stigmatized as "confusion." here's what it looks like.read more, 46 terms that describe sexual attraction, behavior, and orientation familiarizing yourself with language that describes different types of sexual and romantic feelings and orientations can help you, your partners, and your friends navigate and understand the many ways people experience and identify their sexuality. let's get started.read more, pandemic isolation helped me feel at home in my nonbinary identity without constantly being around people who immediately assume i’m a woman, i feel stronger in the magic and beauty of my nonbinary identity.read more, what does it mean to be agender? agender is defined as not having a gender. some describe it as having a “lack of gender,” while others describe themselves as being gender neutral. read more, everything you need to know about chest binding when deciding whether chest binding is right for you, it’s important to take both the positive outcomes and potential risks into consideration. read more, 68 terms that describe gender identity and expression language and labels are important parts of understanding your gender — as well as knowing how to affirm and support that of other folks! we break it down.read more, if you’re wondering what sex can or should feel like, start here answers to the question “what does sex feel like?” range from poetic and adjective laden to nondescript and boring. here’s what you *really* need to know.read more, are cbd suppositories the answer to better, less painful sex? whether you’re looking to remedy pelvic pain or experience more pleasure, cbd suppositories may help. here's how to get started.read more, 24 ways you or your penis-having partner can increase penile… a few things can decrease penile sensation, from the way a person masturbates to lifestyle habits and hormone imbalances. here’s how to get back on track.read more, in the mood but having a low-confidence day? try one of these 17… read on to learn the benefits of getting it on while feeling bleh. plus, 17 sex positions for low self-confidence to try. read more, an adult’s guide to exploring erotic content watching porn can be pleasurable, affirming, and arousing. but you need to find content you enjoy (and are paying for!) for that to be true. here's how.read more, could probiotics improve your sex life? unpacking the gut-sex… probiotics aren’t a one-size-fits-all fix for your gut or libido. but they can be an incredibly beneficial part of a holistic treatment plan.read more, yes, you can have an orgasm after menopause — here’s how sexual pleasure can change as you approach or pass menopause. but creativity, communication, and a willingness to try things can create a satisfying sex life. read more, how to create a sex toy bucket list — and why you should the best way to start figuring out which pleasure products to add to your sex toy bucket list is to think about the types of sensation you already enjoy. read more, how to be a better lover — in and out of the bedroom we’ve got some good news: it’s actually not possible to be bad in bed. really! but there are ways to be a better lover. here's how to up your game.read more, a beginner’s guide to talking dirty virtually or irl you don’t have to be an erotica or fanfic author to crush the dirty talking game. all you need is a little confidence, a willing partner, and this guide. read more, how to have safer “bareback” sex without a condom making the decision to go bareback during sex isn’t something you do on a whim. the consequences could be severe.read more, how to use a vibrator solo or with a partner nothing halts pleasure quite like pressure. so if you’re feeling stressed about using a vibrator right, be assured that so long as you’re feeling good, you’re doing a-ohhh-kay.read more, a beginner’s guide to preparing for anal sex we’re talking safety, cleanliness, a lot of lube, and some major arousal to help make anal sex more pleasure than pain. here's how to prepare.read more, how to have a threesome, whether you’re single or in a relationship psa: anyone can have a threesome. here's how to talk to your partner, find a third (or couple), what to do during, and more.read more, a beginner’s guide to pegging as orgasmic as pegging can feel, it isn't for everyone. if you don’t want to sport a strap-or take it anally, there are plenty of ways to get pleasure.read more, how to use a dildo solo or with a partner nothing halts pleasure quite like pressure. so if you’re feeling stressed about using a dildo right, be assured that so long as you’re feeling good, you’re doing a-o-kay.read more, this is what you should do after unprotected sex or condom failure if you've had unprotected sex or experienced condom failure, there are a number of things you can do to prevent pregnancy and protect against stis and hiv.read more, yes, plan b has a weight limit — here’s what it means for you there isn’t enough research to link weight to lowered plan b effectiveness, so if you’re at or over the limit, you can still take it. here are your options.read more, what is hiv prep and how does it work? taking hiv prep can be highly effective in lowering your risk of contracting hiv and transmitting it to partners. learn more. read more, how often can you take plan b and other emergency contraceptive pills? there’s no limit to how often you can take plan b and other emergency contraception (ec) pills. you can and should take plan b and other ec pills as often as you need without worrying about long-term complications. here’s what you need to know about potential side effects, common misconceptions, and more.read more, how to access free or low-cost sti testing in each state we break down how often you should test for stis and what to expect when you do, plus highlight some of the best free or low-cost test centers in all 50 states.read more, stis are nbd — really. here’s how to talk about it talking to a partner about stis doesn’t have to be a cringe-worthy affair. sex is normal, stis are more common than ever, and there’s no shame in wanting to protect yourself or your partner.read more, the one difference between stis and stds — and how to minimize your… stis and stds aren’t the same thing. really! but if you thought they were, you’re not the only one. the terms are often used interchangeably.read more, how to test for nongenital stis and why you should no matter what kind of sex you’re having, it’s important to know your sti status. that way you can treat any genital or nongenital sti you may have and share your status with your partner(s) so you can have safer sex!read more, how to access free or low-cost birth control in each state we break down your options for birth control and how to get them, plus highlight some of the best free or low-cost providers in all 50 states and online.read more, what happens if a cisgender or trans man takes hormonal birth control? people who are assigned female at birth — including transgender men taking testosterone — can take hormonal birth control pills safely. here's how.read more, reversible birth control can’t cause infertility or affect future… hormonal contraceptives don't cause infertility, no matter which method you use or how long you've been using it. here's what you need to know.read more, birth control may help or even worsen pms — here’s how to deal hormonal birth control is more likely to help pms symptoms than make them worse, but that’s not the case for everyone. here’s what you need to know.read more, how to access an abortion in each state we break down misconceptions, explain what to expect with each type, and share where to best access a legal abortion wherever you are in the united states.read more, when you can get an abortion depends on where you live you’ll find plenty of conflicting information about abortion on the internet, including when and where you can have the procedure done. we’re here to help. read more, 6 ways to know if you’re pregnant within 6 weeks of conception paying attention to changes in your body and cycle can help you recognize early signs of pregnancy while you have time to end the pregnancy, if you choose. read more, do abortions hurt? what to expect when taking the pill or undergoing… everyone's experience is different. whether an abortion hurts depends a lot on your overall health, how far along the pregnancy is, and the type of abortion you have. your pain tolerance is also a factor. some people compare the process to menstrual cramps, while others report more discomfort. here's what to expect.read more, sexual assault resource guide sexual assault is a broad term that encompasses many different experiences. if you believe you've been sexually assaulted or are the victim of a sexual crime, know it isn't your fault. we hope this guide can serve as a resource in this time of need and answer any questions you may have about what to do next.read more, how do i know if i was raped or sexually assaulted? in the aftermath of an assault, you may have a lot of questions. chief among them may be, “was that rape?” we'll walk you through the difference between enthusiastic, continuous, and coerced consent as well explore some common scenarios to help you understand when a rape may have happened and what steps you can take.read more, how to handle a pregnancy scare if you think you might be pregnant — and you don’t want to be — it can be scary. but remember, whatever happens, you aren't alone and you have options. we’re here to help you figure out what to do next, from choosing emergency contraception and charting your menstrual cycle to taking a pregnancy test and beyond.read more, how to deal with an unplanned pregnancy if abortion isn’t for you abortion is one way to deal with an unintended pregnancy, but it isn't the only way. learn about the alternatives, including adoption and legal guardianship.read more, shopping for a sex toy can be overwhelming. this guide can help whether you’re a first-time buyer or a seasoned pro, sex toy shopping can be a little overwhelming. we called on three experts and asked them to share their picks for all erogenous zones.read more, these are the 15 best cock rings money can buy, according to experts whether you’re looking for a cock ring to help with erection dysfunction or just want to beef things up, we’ve got what you need. here are the 15 best.read more, 12 subtle sex toys that are cute, quiet, and easy to use we tapped experts and looked at user reviews to find sex toys for all that are inconspicuous, quiet, and able to do their job, which is getting you off.read more, ready for something new? we’ve got 28 types of kinky sex toys to spice things up the joy of sex toys doesn't start and stop with vibrators! read on if you're ready to incorporate toys a little more… advanced, such as ball gags, chastity belts, and nipple clamps.read more, these are the 12 best penis pumps money can buy, according to experts whether you’re looking for a pump to help with erection problems or want to beef things up down there, we’ve got what you need. here are the 15 best pumps.read more, if you’re curious about anal play, this sex toy shopping guide is for you when it comes to toying around in your tush, there’s something for every body. just remember to use plenty of lube, go at your own pace, and relax! read more, these are the 15 best penis sleeves money can buy, according to experts penis sleeves offer a plethora of pleasure possibilities and can be an invaluable tool for people with erection difficulties. here are 15 of the best.read more, if you’re wondering what sex furniture is, this shopping guide is for you far more than just sex dungeon decor for the kinkiest amongst us, sex furniture can be enjoyed by rompers of all flavors — so-called vanilla included. read more, about us, contact us, privacy policy, privacy settings, advertising policy, health topics, medical affairs, content integrity, newsletters, © 2005-2022 healthline media a red ventures company. all rights reserved. our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. healthline media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. see additional information.]