[due to a planned power outage on friday, 1/14, between 8am-1pm pst, some services may be impacted., a passionate advocate for public internet access and a successful entrepreneur, brewster kahle has spent his career intent on a singular focus: providing universal access to all knowledge. he is the founder and digital librarian of the internet archive, one of the largest libraries in the world. soon after graduating from the massachusetts institute of technology where he studied artificial intelligence, kahle helped found the company thinking machines, a parallel supercomputer maker. in 1989, kahle created the internet's first publishing system called wide area information server (wais), later selling the company to aol. in 1996, kahle co-founded alexa internet, which helps catalog the web, selling it to amazon.com in 1999. the internet archive, which he founded in 1996, now preserves 20 petabytes of data - the books, web pages, music, television, and software of our cultural heritage, working with more than 400 library and university partners to create a digital library, accessible to all., lila is thrilled to join the internet archive to help advise on the complex legal and policy issues associated with democratizing access to knowledge. prior to this, lila was a solo practitioner specializing in digital copyright and privacy issues for individual entrepreneurs and creators, early stage start-ups, internet platforms, and libraries. lila began her working life in traditional publishing at conde nast publications, but decided to go to law school so that "the lawyers don't break the internet." since then, she has dedicated her career to public interest technology law, and has worked on increasing access to knowledge at creative commons, the electronic frontier foundation, the william and flora hewlett foundation, and the samuelson law, technology and public policy clinic at berkeley law. lila has a jd from berkeley law and a ba in philosophy from brown university. her favorite books include the sparrow by mary doria russell, the tenth of december by george saunders, and the chronicles of narnia by c.s. lewis., jefferson joined internet archive in summer 2014. prior to joining ia, he worked on strategic initiatives, digital preservation, archives, and digital collections at institutions such as metropolitan new york library council, library of congress, brooklyn public library, and frick art reference library and has worked in the archives at nara, nasa, and atlantic records. he has an mlis in archival studies from university of pittsburgh and a ba in english from oberlin college. he once flew nasa's space shuttle simulator and caused, according to the flight engineer, "minor landing gear damage." he has deaccessioned all records of this event from his personal archive., joy comes to the internet archive with over 20 years of experience as a nonprofit leader and executive working on strategic fundraising campaigns. she has led high-performing teams and fundraising departments for organizations like world vision, map international, scripps health foundation, parkinson institute and clinical center, and other global ngo's and nonprofits. earlier in her career, joy worked with the largest pet welfare charitable foundation in america, petsmart charities. joy was responsible for leading their entire philanthropy department, where she secured investments to impact petsmart's partners and programs nationally., moreover, joy was instrumental in managing foundations, and corporate and individual relationships to build partnerships world-wide. the foundations she partnered with included the bill and melinda gates foundation and bloomberg philanthropies. joy's experience working with corporations included, hallmark channel, discovery, purina, merck, procter and gamble, apple, and many other companies focused on corporate social responsibility. the co-created partnerships supported technology, global health, gender equity, conservation, and child protection programs., as part of the leadership team at scripps health foundation, joy was instrumental in securing principal gifts and investments for scripps center for integrative medicine and scripps cardiovascular institute's capital campaign., joy holds an m.a in communication (tv and film), and an m.a. in nonprofit leadership and management from the university of san diego's caster school of nonprofit leadership., scott joined internet archive in september of 2015. he comes to the archive with extensive financial and operational experience in not-for-profit and for-profits organizations, and holds degrees from golden gate university and cornell university. just prior to starting with the archive he spent 3 weeks with his family, experiencing and eating up the art, culture, food and history of the uk and france. he has a longstanding love of books, music and technology, and likens the archive to isaac asimov's encyclopedia galactica. scott is active in the community serving on the board of a local foundation, school district committees, and as a volunteer with youth and visitor organizations., chris freeland is the director of open libraries at the internet archive, working in support of the organization's mission to provide "universal access to all knowledge." before joining the internet archive chris was an associate university librarian at washington university in st. louis, managing washington university libraries' digital initiatives and related services. he holds an m.s. in biological sciences from eastern illinois university and an m.s. in library and information science from university of missouri-columbia. his research explores the intersections of science and technology in a cultural heritage context, having published and presented on a variety of topics relating to the use of new media and emerging technologies in libraries and museums., while working previously at missouri botanical garden, he founded and led the center for biodiversity informatics and served as the founding technical director of the biodiversity heritage library (bhl), an international consortium of the world's leading natural history libraries that are working together to digitize their historic collections for free and open access use. he has been a project director for several large informatics and academic computing projects, including the development of the tropicos botanical information system, online at www.tropicos.org, and the bhl, online at www.biodiversitylibrary.org. in addition to his busy academic life, he enjoys making and selling soap for south compton soap company, the small business he runs with his husband, who is also named chris., mark graham has created and managed innovative online products and services since 1984. as director of the wayback machine he is responsible for capturing, preserving and helping people discover and use, more than 1 billion new web captures each week. mark was most recently senior vice president with nbc news where he managed several business units including gardenweb and stringwire, a live, mobile, video platform for collaborative citizen reporting. mark was senior vice president of technology with ivillage, an early internet company that focused on women and community. he co-founded rojo networks, one of the first large-scale feed aggregators and personalized blog readers (sold to sixapart.), in the early days of the net he managed technology and business development at the well and lead their effort to build the first web-based interface for online forums, and also helped bring the pre-web internet to millions of people by running aol's gopher project as part of their internet center. he managed technology for the pioneering us-soviet sovam teleport email service and co-founded and managed peacenet, one of the first online communities for progressive social change, and later igc.org, one of the world first isps. he also co-founded the global ngo, apc.org. mark's early training and experience with computer-mediated communications was acquired while he served in the us air force, spending more than 3 years working at the air force data services center at the pentagon. mark's nonprofit work includes volunteering with the open education library http://oercommons.org and as a board member of http://openrecoverysf.org., wendy hanamura joined the internet archive in 2014 as the director of partnerships. her first goal is to help build a new institute where brilliant developers can come work with the archive's big data sets. at the archive, wendy hopes to use her storytelling skills to share the remarkable stories locked in its collections. previously, as chief digital officer of kcetlink and link tv, the national non-profit media network, wendy led diverse teams producing television series, apps, a semantic platform for global videos, international film contests and documentaries - all in the service of social change., wendy began her career in journalism as a photo editor for time magazine. she's reported and produced television content around the world for cbs, world monitor television, nhk (japanese broadcasting corporation), and pbs. her favorite project remains honor bound: a personal journey, the documentary she produced about her father and his storied unit, the japanese american 442nd regimental combat team. wendy graduated summa cum laude from harvard university where she majored in east asian studies and visual and environmental studies; then she studied architecture with fumihiko maki at the university of tokyo. wendy loves to hike, throw parties and teach art in the san francisco public schools. she loves paper and books, especially handmade paper from japan and the ways artists use it., roger joined the internet archive to help create an open digital public library of tv news, providing a means to thoughtfully reflect upon the most pervasive and persuasive medium of our time. certainly no coincidence that he had spent the previous eleven years helping to manage the nation's largest independent noncommercial tv network, link tv. prior to co-founding the network devoted to global news and culture in1999, roger helped create and manage several other organizations engaged in addressing international challenges, often through media, including the gorbachev foundation. his favorite quote: be ashamed to die until you have won some victory for humanity. -- horace mann, abolitionist; father of u.s. public education; and founder of antioch college., bz joined the internet archive in october 2016. a veteran of the animation industry; lucasfilm, wild brain, pixar and colossal pictures, it was her love of books that drove her to work for the internet archive. as a life long "people person" she is well suited for her responsibilities in events and people operations for the archive. when not working, bz likes to watch baseball, listen to jazz and go running on her beloved mt. tamalpais., alexis has been working with the internet archive since our first service, the wayback machine, was launched in 2001. she currently manages all media and access for archive.org, including audio, movies, books, software, images, and the archive.org web site. her past internet archive projects include open library the open content alliance and the wayback machine., alexis has been working with internet content since 1996 when she discovered that being picky about words in books (as a cookbook editor) was good training for being picky about data on computers. she spent several years as managing editor at clarinet (the first online news aggregator), worked as the editorial director at alexa internet, and as product manager at mixercast. alexis has an mlis, concentrating on web technologies and interfaces, and enjoys making jewelry, dancing, and baking cookie smackdown-winning cookies. you can read her blog at alexisrossi.com or follow her on twitter., cr saikley tackled his first engineering problem for the internet archive professionally in 2003, when he designed the first generation of petabox hardware that stores the trillions of bytes of data in our collections. he has since designed a second generation of petabox hardware, and launched multiple digitization projects for the internet archive, improving our scanning processes for books and cds. cr now turns his prodigious problem-solving skills now to our physical archive, where he is creating processes to inventory, track and securely preserve millions of physical items, from books to 78 rpm records., since his days at mit, cr has over 30 years of experience in technology development and management in many diverse areas including medical equipment, large-scale data storage, computer vision, data communications, grid-scale power, and semiconductor test equipment., outside the office, cr can sometimes be spotted playing guitar in various venues around the san francisco bay, or sailing on its glorious waters., rick prelinger prelinger.com, an archivist, writer and filmmaker, founded prelinger archives, whose collection of 51,000 advertising, educational, industrial, and amateur films was acquired by the library of congress in 2002 after 20 years' operation. rick has partnered with the internet archive to make 2,000 films from prelinger archives available online for free viewing, downloading and reuse. with the voyager company, a pioneer new media publisher, he produced fourteen laserdiscs and cd-roms with material from his archives, including "ephemeral films," the "our secret century" series and "call it home: the house that private enterprise built," a laserdisc on the history of suburbia and suburban planning. rick has taught in the mfa design program at new york's school of visual arts and lectured widely on american cultural and social history and on issues of cultural and intellectual property access. he sits on the national film preservation board as representative of the association of moving image archivists and is board president of the internet archive and also the san francisco cinematheque. his feature-length film "panorama ephemera," depicting the conflicted landscapes of 20th-century america, opened in summer 2004. he is co-founder of the prelinger library, an appropriation-friendly reference library located in san francisco., kathleen burch has decades of experience in non-profit management, strategic thinking, and community activation, all to serve her passion and commitment to universal literacy and book publishing., after studies at mills college in oakland in english literature and and graduate work in the book arts department, she founded a type & design studio and collaborated with an independent publishing house, burning books, both of which thrived in san francisco throughout the eighties., an understanding of the community's needs, along with her value for arts organizations, book arts and social entrepreneuring, drove burch to go on to co-found the san francisco center for the book in 1996. she now serves as its board vice-chair and on the executive committee in perpetuity. besides sitting on several other community-based boards, she also chaired the board of pro arte libri, an international arts organization devoted to the art of fine bookmaking., she has practiced symbolic communication through typographic languages since 1974, publishing the works of big thinkers such as john cage, robert ashley, yoko ono, laurie anderson, and her own work on game theory and the culture of card-playing, with recent studies in the visual criticism department at california college of art in san francisco. her work with burning books was the subject of a retrospective exhibition at mills college in 1996. she was a xerox parc artist-in-residence in 2000., david rumsey is president of cartography associates, a digital publishing company based in san francisco, and chairman of luna imaging, a provider of software for online image collections. rumsey's collection of historical maps numbers over 150,000 cartographic items and is one of the largest private map collections in the united states. in 2002, he received a webby award for technical achievement and an honors award from the special libraries association for providing free public access to his private map collection at the david rumsey map collection., rumsey received his ba and mfa from yale university where he was a lecturer in art and a founding member of yale research associates in the arts, a group of artists working with electronic technologies. he serves on the boards of the long now foundation, john carter brown library, advisory board to stanford university library, and is a trustee of yale library associates and the samuel h. kress foundation., rumsey has lectured widely regarding his online library work, including talks at the library of congress, new york public library, digital library federation, stanford university, harvard university, and at conferences in the u.s., hong kong, mexico, japan, united kingdom, and germany. he has contributed to several publications on cartography and the advent of gis. in 2005 esri press published his book cartographica extraordinaire. recently, rumsey has been creating historical map projects both in google earth and the virtual world of second life., christina humphreys joined the philanthropy team at the internet archive in 2021, having spent the last decade supporting arts and environmental nonprofits in fundraising and program development. her interest in early internet art and aesthetics brought her to the internet archive, where many now defunct websites have been saved through the wayback machine. along with reliving the internet of her childhood, she loves exploring the various collections of art, film, and books preserved on archive.org. she views the internet archive as a vital cultural resource, creating an accessible future for information and materials that would otherwise be locked away in a vault or lost to history., her background in the arts led her to write grants for tempus projects, a nonprofit art gallery in tampa, fl which nurtures emerging and established artists through exhibition and residency opportunities. since moving from florida to san francisco in 2016, she has supported the fundraising teams of both the rainforest action network and the museum of craft and design., humphreys is a visual artist and received a bfa in studio art with a focus in painting and video from the university of south florida. she maintains an art practice in textiles, painting, and digital art and has shown her work in galleries in florida, oregon, and cuba. she loves exploring used book and second-hand stores and finding interesting books and objects for her own collection., before joining the internet archive, jenica worked at a marketing optimization company, where she learned how to design multivariate tests, analyze response data, and create the best email subject lines your spam filters have ever seen. she graduated from the university of utah in 2017 with a ba in linguistics, and is always ready to drop random facts about austronesian language families or english etymology into any given conversation. she is a lifelong trivia buff whose childhood dreams came true with an appearance on jeopardy in 2014. when she's not hard at work or watching game shows, she enjoys writing, cooking, reading anything she can get her hands on, and playing dungeons and dragons., tim bigelow joined the archive as a scanner on the night shift in 2008 and worked his way up from foldout operator, head cataloger and has been the new england regional digitization manager at the digitization center located in the boston public library since 2013. he graduated from franklin pierce college, now franklin pierce university, in 2007 with a degree in criminal justice. he enjoys spoiling his dog mimi, exploring abandoned buildings, reading books and magazines, watching all the real housewives shows and learning more about his armenian culture in his free time., it has been jude coelho's pleasure to work for the internet archive since 2008, when he started as a book scanner. he currently manages a team that develops and maintains the software used for book digitization as well as for other projects., sophie joined the internet archive in 2016 as a digitization operative at our euston scan centre. one year later she had progressed up the ranks to cataloguer and made the final transition to european digitization manager in march 2019. her background with books is fairly diverse having worked for several major institutions including the british library and the national archives. outside of work you will find her driving around the english countryside, running downhill and listening to metal., elizabeth joined the internet archive as a scribe operator in 2010 at her beloved wilson special collections library at the university of north carolina at chapel hill. before the ia, elizabeth had digitized audio and video material for the southern folklife collection of unc and catalogued specimens at the north carolina insect museum in raleigh. she currently supports a diverse group of satellite digitization centers--from south africa to santa monica. in her spare time, she enjoys cooking, hiking, and reading under her cat., andrea joined the archive team at the university of toronto in the spring of 2006. she has become immersed in all facets of managing digitization projects, with a focus on accessibility, academic libraries, archives and government partners. as program manager, andrea has the pleasure of working with libraries and users around the world, helping to bring collections of material into the public domain, ensuring their organization has the greatest reach., a meandering educational and professional experience informs andrea's work; a diploma from george brown college as a studio goldsmith, and time as a production designer, followed by a bachelor of arts in humanities and bachelor of education from york university. her lifelong love of learning and reading makes for moments caught reading rare books, both physical and digital. in her spare time, andrea loves to ride her bike up and down mountains, knit for days on end, and feed family and friends from her kitchen., jeff's work experience in administration and research led him to the coordinator position at the digitization center in the allen county public library in fort wayne indiana. he's proud of his role in assisting to put well over a hundred thousand books online for universal access, including over fifteen thousand items digitized by volunteers at his center. he is a voracious reader, and loves books. he has a love of history and archaeology and is particularly fascinated with mayan civilization, and has traveled extensively visiting mayan ruins. he enjoys among other things bicycle riding, gardening, and hanging out with his wife and two kids, and their two dogs. he has a bachelors degree from indiana university in bloomington., andy enjoys working and playing with linux (and solaris, too) in environments small and large. he graduated from carleton college in 1996 with a degree in math, and has lived in or near most of the major metropolises of the upper midwest: milwaukee, minneapolis, chicago, umm... minneapolis again. andy shares the (stereo?)typical interests of fantasy, sci-fi, and electronic music, but also likes both cats and dogs, t'ai chi and chai tea., hank is enjoying his second helping of computers, having taken refuge in the social sciences and academia for two decades after a stint of ai work (at at&t bell labs) in the 1980s, and now taking refuge from academia and the social sciences by plunging back into the geek realm. although the work was fun the first time around, it did nothing to make the world a better place, thus the detour into grad school and faculty life; this time, it's not only fun (and a bit addictive), it's got purpose. the archive rocks. since 2007 hank has been supporting the books project at various points from book ingest, through processing, to web presentation of the results., hank has s.b. degrees from mit in math and computer science, and an m.a. and ph.d. in educational policy studies from the university of wisconsin-madison. he is answerable for the books lisp lore: a guide to programming the lisp machine, and education/technology/power: educational computing as a social practice (co-edited with michael w. apple)., jason is one of the new software engineers on the archive.org user experience team. he's a tinkerer and a technologist who loves taking things apart, learning how they work, and sometimes putting them back together. he's been doing software engineering and web development for over 20 years, which has given him the opportunity to learn and develop in many engineering environments. he is also an outdoor enthusiast that loves hiking, camping, running, biking, swimming, gardening, and much more. one of his recent side projects is an ios music player for the internet archive's live music collection, which can be found at https://livemusicarchive.app, steve joined the operations team at the archive in 2018. he graduated with an electrical engineering degree, determined to do anything but modern electrical engineering. he has leveraged a general familiarity with unix-like systems into several roles, including at vmware and cisco. after refactoring his life several years ago, he decided to move to the non-profit sector. he prefers his friends weird, his coffee black, and his computing systems open. he likes radio, 3d printing, bad music, and dead media. in the operations department, he helps keep the platters spinning and the fiber lit., brenton is a technology-wielding explorer, inventor, and systems thinker. taught to program from birth, he was a freelance software developer for many years, before joining a large media corporation and helping deliver a decade's worth of extremely clever horoscopes to people's inboxes, mobile phones, and websites. for 2 years, he cleared his palate with a live streaming video start-up called stringwire. and then he joined the archive. in his spare time, he is an adjunct faculty of the performing arts at university of san francisco, an ios developer, a laban movement analyst, a linguaphile, a dad, and a guitarist of absolutely no talent or consequence., a transplant from italy, giovanni joined the archive in january 2015 as a full stack engineer for the digital libraries division. he loves books, traveling, photography, freaks and freedom. he believes in the power of imagination to remake the world., jonah joined the internet archive in the fall of 2016, escaping from the world of online attention optimization to the peace and safety of techno-utopian librarianship. he focuses on networking and infrastructure, and comes from a background of high-performance computing, optimization, and systems engineering. he holds a bs in mathematics with a focus on logic and set theory from the university of washington, and in his spare time enjoys light retrocomputing, craft beer, and desolate places., before becoming a web developer, isa was in rock & roll. sadly, not the glamorous part, she was behind the scenes paper pushing contracts for multi-million dollar artists that you may or may not have heard of. before that, she went on a walk about across the us while making websites for artists & small brands alike. coming back to sf, she honed her dev chops building and scaling peerspace.com. currently, you can find her in north beach teaching her toddler nicodemus how to speak and loudly listening to (usually, obscure) music with her husband chris., over 70% of the world lives on less than $10 a day. this means up to 2/3 of our neighbors can't afford all the resources they need to reach their full potential. because of this, we're letting billions of hours of productivity go to waste and robbing people of their chance to follow their dreams and make a positive difference. this is one of humanity's greatest tragedies and it's something within our reach to change., mek wakes up each morning with aspirations of fixing this inequality. to facilitate pushing the limit of responsible human achievement and to see how far humanity can get when unnecessary obstacles are removed. when caring, ethical, motivated people are empowered to act with the fullest of their human potential. in service of this mission, mek works to make millions of books available through the world's open library and, in his free time, helps organize archive labs: an autonomous, volunteer-run community, with over 150 members, which incubates open access and public good., you can learn more about his progress at https://mek.fyi, jonny holds a bachelor's degree in computer science from the university of nevada, reno. while in college, jonny worked as an it technician for the university and moved into web development a few years later. the operations engineer role appealed to jonny as it seemed like a great area for him to utilize his it and development background. in his free time jonny enjoys writing code, playing video games and board games, going on hikes, bike rides and working on his car., prior to joining the internet archive, jim nelson was lead engineer and executive director of the yorba foundation, an open-source nonprofit. in the past he's worked at xtree company, starlight networks, and a whole lot of silicon valley startups you've probably never heard of. jim also writes novels and short fiction. you can read more at j-nelson.net., before joining the archive, jim worked as a designer in the video game industry, wrangled computers as a sysadmin for a medical college, acted a bit in a few plays and short films, worked in a medical library, put together a database for the local chapter of a non-profit, and helped out at a county museum., several years ago, jim began using the archive to feed his love for old time radio shows, and he now looks forward to helping it achieve its mission of 'universal access to all knowledge'. of course, he'll continue to tune in nearly every night for another episode., aaron joined the archive in 2011, where he aims to assist with the alchemy of converting ephemera into artifacts. as an artist, aaron is interested in documentation and its possibilities., mirage joined the archive in 2021 to drive new partner outreach for internet archive's web archiving and data services division, providing a suite of paid and free products focused on the archiving, management, analysis, and accessibility of digital information, with the ultimate goal of furthering universal access to all knowledge. mirage is passionate about supporting the national and international community and a range of different institutions and stakeholders advancing scholarship, learning, cultural heritage, open information, and the social good. she previously worked at backstage library works and has a dual ba in global, international, and area studies (gias) & political science from unc charlotte. in her free time you can find her making a mess in the kitchen, gardening, or on the weekends, keeping up with her dog while hiking the appalachian trails., karl joined the archive-it team at the internet archive in 2015 to help all partners build their collections through application support, testing, training, and documentation. his boundless enthusiasm for all things web archiving developed during his term as a national digital stewardship resident and archive-it partner with the new york art resources consortium (nyarc). originally from philadelphia, karl earned his ba in history of art from haverford college and his ms in library and information science from drexel university. he now helps partners to build their web archives with the assistance of his crack team (of housecats) from his new home in chicago., madeline joined the archive in 2019 to manage the archive-it community of partners. she previously worked at chronicle books and earned her ba in the history of art and visual culture from ucsc. in her free time, you can find her exploring and camping along the california coast with her sweet but stubborn basset hound named bonnie., alex comes to archive-it from dynata, where he was a director of engineering. he brings over 13 years of internet-based start-up experience, wearing just about every hat they make. he’s been a fan of the internet archive since reading a wired magazine article covering the wayback machine in high school, and jumped on this opportunity to help build something enduring. alex remembers his father, a christian scientist, teaching him society is built on intergenerational commitments. he finds it surreal that he will be working to preserve our culture and history for future generations at the internet archive’s headquarters building, a repurposed christian science church. he delights in being with his young family in his free time. but after his baby goes to bed he’s drawn back to his computer to learn everything he can to bring our present moment into the far future with archive-it., lori joined the internet archive in 2010 and works with archive-it partners, the support team, and the engineering team to develop the archive-it service so that it meets the needs of its wide range of users. she enjoys working at a mission-based organization, helping organizations fulfill their own missions by archiving the web. lori has a masters of science in information from the university of michigan, specializing in archives and digital preservation. she previously studied history and political science at boise state university. in her spare time, lori enjoys cooking, running after her 2 kids, and trying to catch up on her favorite tv shows., derek enos joined the internet archive from octopart inc., where he worked as a full-stack developer for almost 8 years. he has a background in electronic hardware design, including experience at harmonix music systems, where he worked as a technical designer for a variety of devices like the rock band 3 game controllers. he is especially interested in human-computer interaction and enjoys creating fun projects in his basement workshop. originally from rhode island, derek now resides in new york with his family where he likes hiking in the beautiful hudson valley and reading when he can find free time., catherine falls joined the internet archive in the spring of 2021 as a program officer with community webs. she came to the organization after four years as an archivist at the archives of ontario in toronto and has previous experience in academic archives and special collections libraries in the toronto area. catherine is thrilled to be supporting such an impactful organization and to be helping public libraries document their local communities through web archiving as part of the community webs team. when not at work, catherine can be found reading plotless fiction, hiking the hills behind her apartment, hanging out with her husband, friends, and family, and debating with her cat, bb., helge started working for the internet archive in august 2018. before, he earned his master of computer science and worked as a researcher in germany, striving for his phd on efficient access methods for web archives, in which he already closely collaborated with the archive and archive-it. he is passionate about big data, especially if there's a temporal aspect to it, and is glad to contribute to a non-profit team that holds one of the biggest collections of free data in the world. in addition to creating innovative services by deriving new value from this unique dataset, helge is happy to support libraries and institutions interested in accessing the data as a consultant located in europe. in his spare time, he enjoys spending time with his wife and little daughter, who joined this world just one month before he joined the archive., peggy manages programs to support web archiving and cultural preservation among diverse communities. she's worked both locally and globally on programs addressing hiv/aids, family planning, mental health, child nutrition, women's health, and substance abuse throughout asia, africa, and the us. she also created made by girls, a national program to build stem confidence in girls ages 8-17. this propelled her into serving as a mentor for techwomen, a state department program to support tech leadership for women in africa and the middle east. she has a bachelor of arts in social welfare from uc berkeley and a masters of science in public health from johns hopkins university. she loves libraries (of course!), road trips, pop culture, and poetry., adam graduated from eastern washington university in 2009 with a masters of science in computer science. he previously worked at the washington state archives' digital archives where he worked on developing tools for digital preservation/migration, and web archiving. he joined the internet archive's web group in 2011 to continue developing web archiving tools, and manage large scale focused crawls for the ia and its partners., barbara began working with the archive's civicrm installation in september 2015 from her home in wonderful portland, oregon, a half block from klickitat street, and started as a support engineer for archive-it in march 2016. her earlier technical adventures include an internship with mozilla qa and serving as it coordinator for the anglo-american college in prague., bryan finally joined the archive in 2017 after spending more than a decade as an enthusiastic user of wayback machine. over that same time period he climbed up and down the ladder of abstraction, obtaining an undergraduate degree in physics (at mit), operating under-ice robots in antarctica, developing open hardware lab instrumentation for large-scale brain probing (at leaflabs), cataloging hundreds of millions of electronics components (at octopart), and improved production service reliability at stripe (a financial infrastructure start-up)., bryan is a transplant from the east coast and enjoys the road biking, large trees, generous salads, used book stores, and world-class tech non-profits found all around the bay area., neil joined the internet archive in july 2015 and is currently providing technical support for archive-it systems. as a software engineer, he is passionate about using technology to produce simple solutions that distill complex problems. prior to joining the team, he spent over 6 years working for walmart stores inc. in e-commerce as a developer, systems analyst, and technical lead. neil holds a bachelors of web management and internet commerce from johnson & wales university. outside of the office, he enjoys spending time exploring the san francisco bay area, tinkering with technology, and building things from a vast collection of spare parts., sylvie is happy to be supporting archive-it partner institutions' web archiving programs. she holds a master of science in library and information science from the university of illinois at urbana-champaign where she focused on special collections and preservation. before coming to the internet archive, she worked as a graduate project assistant in the preservation department of the u of i library and as a library assistant at the newberry library in chicago. in her spare time, sylvie is learning to play the accordion and enjoys running, singing, and dragon boating., tabish had contributed his talents to internet archive projects for over two and a half years prior to joining archive-it, notably the open library's book sponsorship program. he held prestigious internships with the google summer of code and the open library during that time, as well volunteering as a software engineer while completing his studies. having graduated from the indian institute of technology, jammu in 2020, he has since relocated back to his hometown in pune, india, where he is currently based. in his free time tabish plays guitar and bass guitar. tabish is passionate about open source projects, free access to books, and preserving social media, especially tweets., pravin joined archive-it in 2020 as a web app engineer. a longtime supporter of movements for free software and cultural works, he was excited by the internet archive's goals, as well as the opportunity to work for a nonprofit. he holds a bachelor's in computer science with a minor in english from the university of california, los angeles. he previously worked at the b. john garrick institute for the risk sciences, developing risk assessment applications for clients like the jet propulsion laboratory and the pacific gas and electric company. in his free time, he enjoys reading complicated books, working on personal software projects, and talking to his dog., kyrie specializes in managed web crawling services for the internet archive web group's collaborators, including archive-it partners. she moved to san francisco from cleveland, ohio, and joined the archive-it team in 2016 after a stint volunteering on the internet archive's newsweek on the air collection., corentin started working at the internet archive when he was 19, he is working remotely from toulouse, a city in the south west of france referred to as "la ville rose". he is passionate about web crawling, building open source projects that are related to data preservation, and loves the challenge of writing code that uses all resources most efficiently. besides work, corentin likes listening to music, especially enjoys comedies and historical shows, and knows every line of kaamelott., tracey was a founding coder and the system architect for the internet archive in 1996, writing multi-threaded servers and crawlers, as well as parallel processing code. she continued on with the company and alexa internet. in 2000, she left for four years to follow her cornell mentor, dan huttenlocher, and was a technical lead and founding engineer at a financial services software startup. she returned to the internet archive in october 2004 and is most excited about being at a non-profit and doing digital video. tracey holds a master's and bachelor's degree in computer science from cornell university where she focused on machine vision and robotics., outside of work, she has worked on political campaigns and is a road biker, seamstress, video producer, wannabe guitar player, and time-lapse digital photography enthusiast. she adores her longhaired, beautiful, clawed ball of fluff at home and defies her diagnosed cat allergy. poohbot.com tracey jaquith @tracey_pooh, jake joined the archive in 2009 as an americorps vista volunteer on the nasa images project. in 2011 he joined the collections team, and has since then added over 2 million items to the archive jake also developed and maintains the internet archive python library and command-line tool he holds a bachelor of fine arts from minneapolis college of art and design., jeff joined the internet archive in 2010. prior to joining the archive, he worked for as a creative director and senior designer at several marketing-communication firms in san francisco. he holds a b.f.a. from california college of the arts. outside of work, he enjoys playing in local bluegrass bands and surfing along the northern california coast., after working for a japanese computer company as a researcher for 17 years, kenji joined the internet archive in august 2010 to implement a system archiving everything on the internet. being a positively lazy engineer, enthusiastic about making computers work for humans with least effort, he likes mixing tools and programming languages to get things done. loves handicrafts, cooks pasta and bakes biscotti., dr. sawood alam received his doctoral degree from the old dominion university (odu) and joined the internet archive (ia) in 2020. in addition to solving engineering challenges of the wayback machine at scale, he is responsible for connecting to and establishing relationship with the broader academic and research community. prior to joining ia, he was a member of the web science and digital libraries (ws-dl) research group at odu., sawood serves the digital preservation, web science, decentralized web, and other related communities by creating tools, contributing to open-source projects, publishing and peer reviewing research papers, teaching, mentoring, and actively participating in conversations about standardization for interoperability on platforms like international internet preservation consortium (iipc) and internet engineering task force (ietf)., sawood is familiar with more than half a dozen natural languages with primary contributions in promoting urdu on the web, which is an under-resourced complex-script right-to-left language with many unique challenges. sawood volunteers as an administrator of urduweb, a premier online urdu community portal, which is promoting unicode urdu on the web since 2005. sawood can be reached at https://twitter.com/ibnesayeed., jason scott fills the singularly unique role as the free-range archivist & software curator at the internet archive. he likes long walks on the beach and exploding paradigms. he is attempting to collect everything, at which point he will retire and make folder tags., prior to working at the internet archive, victor started his career in construction and facility maintenance by specializing in plastering, then moved on to work in carpentry for six years. following this, he went into plumbing for an additional five years, then moved to hawaii to flip houses. in 2008, he returned to the san francisco bay area to run his own remodeling business before accepting his current position as the building engineer for the internet archive in 2013., in his spare time, victor enjoys supporting his daughter in her many athletic endeavors, traveling, and bantering with other internet archive staff., an unrepentant dilettante, chris has successfully parlayed his twin degrees in environmental science and film studies into a near decade of slumming around various non-profits in the sf bay and detroit metro areas. during that time, he has fought with and cleaned up after little kids, made sure the supply cabinet wasn't out of paperclips, and helped manage high-level legal issues and inquiries from federal and international law enforcement. as a fan of things that are preposterously good, chris' involvement with the archive has been a natural fit. the interests of the moment are tai chi and pushing the socially-acceptable limits of film snobbery., amir received his mfa from the san francisco art institute and is a practicing bay area artist and educator. amir's role at the archive is to connect artist with the archives collections and to show what is possible when open access to information meets the arts., joining the hr team in 2016, diana has a range of responsibilities including payroll, workers comp, insurance and benefits, onboarding, and employee wellness & engagement. her goal is to make things more efficient and to make all staff time at the archive more enjoyable. outside of work, she loves traveling the world and camping with her dog, moose., kevin joined the internet archive in june of 2018. originally hailing from maine, kevin has lived in the richmond district for the majority of his decade plus tenure in san francisco, and greatly enjoys the wonderful parks and beaches it features. kevin also appreciates the 'small community' aspect of this neighborhood, and has worked closely with the district 1 supervisor's office, the sf events & entertainment commission, and the sf dept of homelessness and supportive housing over the years. he enjoys anything outdoors related and spending time with his two young children., as brewster's executive assistant, caitlin's role at the archive includes wearing many hats -- from scheduling brewster's travel, to organizing event logistics, to refining processes and procedures. prior to the archive, caitlin worked in publishing, but wanted to work for an organization that was less clickbait-y and ad-driven and instead passionate about providing access to knowledge. when she's not working, caitlin is likely reading zines, attending concerts, or unplugging her devices and backpacking in the woods., cari joined the staff in october 2020 as the internet archive's second lawyer. as product counsel, she supports various library initiatives to make the archive's collections increasingly accessible. cari counsels patron services, finance and administration, engineering and collections on policy, compliance, and agreements. she has bas in english and communications from monmouth university and a jd from golden gate university school of law. two of cari's favorite places are libraries and archives, so working for the internet archive is her dream job., jessica joined the internet archive finance team in 2020. she has a multifaceted professional background, with extensive and diverse experience in oil & gas, healthcare, for profit and public accounting., she holds a masters of engineering (meng) in petroleum engineering from imperial college london, masters in business administration (mba) from the citadel, and is a certified public accountant & certified global management accountant. in her spare time, she enjoys hiking, reading, and spending time with her family., theresa loves to play with numbers and has been providing full-cycle accounting services to various companies for more than ten years. her accounting expertise helps the problem-solving and decision-making process of the company's financial system, and ensures the accuracy of record-keeping of the accounting system.][news [more], bios, executive staff, board of directors, philanthropy, digital libraries division, engineering & petabox, archiving & data services, collections, media, and access, administration & finance]internet archive: bios[][about, blog, projects, help, donate donate icon an illustration of a heart shape, contact, jobs, volunteer, people, sign up for free, log in]