[the fitness that fits you, fitness isn't about what you can lose. it's about what you can gain., fitting in exercise is hard for everyone. hearing what keeps other people going…, it can feel overwhelming when you're trying to make time for exercise. here are…, feeling like it's impossible to find time to exercise? don't fret! science says…, there are countless benefits of exercise. moving in the way that feels good to you is the…, there are some easy things parents can do with their young children now to set the…, i tried to fit into someone else's standard of beauty for too long. now i'm creating my…, any kind of exercise is good for you, but working out in groups may give you a little…, spirit club is on a mission to make exercise accessible to everyone, regardless of their…, these gyms are making working out accessible to people who don’t necessarily feel…, exercise is good for you, but getting started can be tough. this article explains how to…, walking in the morning actually does have specific benefits. here are 10 benefits to…, following my joy in the stables has allowed me to reap more health benefits than going to…, recent research has touted the benefits of pilates for many populations. if you’re looking…, there are more benefits to hitting the pool than simply cooling off on a hot day. here's…, strength training can provide numerous benefits for people of every age, size, and shape…, chronic stress means living in a constant state of fight or flight. so what does that mean for black women's health and…, i’ve always had a love-hate relationship with exercise. that is until i started researching how powerful it really is., i can relate to my female clients when a normal workout routine is unexpectedly impossible. equipped with curiosity and…, high intensity interval training can produce amazing results. but, like anything, it’s best in moderation., engaging your core is a common workout technique meant to help support your trunk muscles. this article explains how to…, when you have type 2 diabetes, regular exercise does more than keep you in shape. a daily…, not only is exercise a good way to improve some of the physical effects of ms, but it can…, regular exercise and stretching can help ease rheumatoid arthritis symptoms. learn which…, which yoga poses are good for endometriosis? check out these 8 poses to help manage your…, conquer lower back pain and tightness with these seven stretches, complete with…, foam rolling may offer benefits to people with sore muscles, or it can also be used to…, this short sequence of stretches can take less than 10 minutes, but it can make a big…, active stretching is often used after exercise for recovery purposes. but what's the…, looking for a hydrow review? here's the scoop according to healthline's editorial team., with the right equipment, it's easy to get a good workout at home. this article lists the…, see what massage guns our team has picked to ensure you recover well for your next workout., fitness trackers are a great way to measure your daily activities and health stats. here…, ever struggled to fit fitness into your everyday life? we're here to provide accessible…, weight lifting and stretching are beneficial at any age, but there are specific benefits…, if you're looking to build muscle and tone your body, a proper exercise regimen is…, whether you’re a beginner to the practice or an advanced yogi, there are benefits to yoga…, despite its troubled past, the hiking community is slowly transforming into a more inclusive space., you might not think twice about going for a run in your neighborhood. but as someone who is wrongly perceived as a threat, i…, recovering from exercise addiction is no small task, but it is possible when you find the fun in moving again., black women are changing the game for athletes., the original 8 limbs of yoga offer insight into how yoga has been culturally appropriated. here's how you can honor yoga's…, digital fitness platforms are proving to be an unlikely solution to the disproportionate…, is it safe to exercise after the covid vaccine? we've got the answer., the covid-19 pandemic has shuttered gyms worldwide. this article explores the effects of…, accepting your body and loving it aren't mutually exclusive ideas, but body neutrality…, our brands][fitness, featured, get motivated, find your movement, level up, exercise + conditions, rest and recover, support your journey, exercise with us, editors' picks, more in fitness]fitness[][health conditions, discover, plan, connect, shop, get motivated, find your movement, level up, exercise + conditions, rest and recover, exercise with us, support your journey, welcome to healthline fitness: a letter from the editor fitness isn't about what you can lose. it's about what you can gain.read more, why i exercise: real people weigh in on what keeps them going fitting in exercise is hard for everyone. hearing what keeps other people going…read more, 10 ways to move more in everyday life it can feel overwhelming when you're trying to make time for exercise. here are…read more, fit it in: mini workouts are a great option when you're crunched for… feeling like it's impossible to find time to exercise? don't fret! science says…read more, read more, feel good fitness there are countless benefits of exercise. moving in the way that feels good to you is the…, how to inspire a love of movement from an early age there are some easy things parents can do with their young children now to set the…, what fit looks like: a black woman's journey i tried to fit into someone else's standard of beauty for too long. now i'm creating my…, people who exercise in groups get more health benefits any kind of exercise is good for you, but working out in groups may give you a little…, introducing spirit club, a company bringing fitness to those with… spirit club is on a mission to make exercise accessible to everyone, regardless of their…, working out is for every body: 3 organizations promoting inclusive… these gyms are making working out accessible to people who don’t necessarily feel…, how to start exercising: a beginner’s guide to working out exercise is good for you, but getting started can be tough. this article explains how to…, the benefits of starting your day with a walk walking in the morning actually does have specific benefits. here are 10 benefits to…, finding fitness on the back of a horse following my joy in the stables has allowed me to reap more health benefits than going to…, these 19 benefits of pilates will inspire you to fire up your core recent research has touted the benefits of pilates for many populations. if you’re looking…, what are the top 12 benefits of swimming? there are more benefits to hitting the pool than simply cooling off on a hot day. here's…, 14 benefits of strength training strength training can provide numerous benefits for people of every age, size, and shape…, , black women and cortisol: how chronic stress affects your fitness chronic stress means living in a constant state of fight or flight. so what does that mean for black women's health and…read more, , being an exercise researcher taught me to rethink my own fitness i’ve always had a love-hate relationship with exercise. that is until i started researching how powerful it really is. read more, how (and why) to cycle your exercise with your menstrual cycle i can relate to my female clients when a normal workout routine is unexpectedly impossible. equipped with curiosity and…read more, the cortisol creep: is hiit stressing you out? high intensity interval training can produce amazing results. but, like anything, it’s best in moderation.read more, a comprehensive guide to engaging your core engaging your core is a common workout technique meant to help support your trunk muscles. this article explains how to…read more, staying active with type 2 diabetes in your 50s: yoga, pilates, and… when you have type 2 diabetes, regular exercise does more than keep you in shape. a daily…, ms exercises for better balance and coordination not only is exercise a good way to improve some of the physical effects of ms, but it can…, 7 essential everyday exercises to manage pain regular exercise and stretching can help ease rheumatoid arthritis symptoms. learn which…, yoga for endometriosis: try these stretches to relieve pain which yoga poses are good for endometriosis? check out these 8 poses to help manage your…, 7 lower back stretches to reduce pain and build strength conquer lower back pain and tightness with these seven stretches, complete with…, what are the benefits of foam rolling? foam rolling may offer benefits to people with sore muscles, or it can also be used to…, 7 morning stretches to start your day this short sequence of stretches can take less than 10 minutes, but it can make a big…, active stretching is the static stretching you haven’t tried yet active stretching is often used after exercise for recovery purposes. but what's the…, hydrow review: we tried the tesla of rowing machines looking for a hydrow review? here's the scoop according to healthline's editorial team., the 12 best home gym equipment items to own with the right equipment, it's easy to get a good workout at home. this article lists the…, the 8 best massage guns of 2021 see what massage guns our team has picked to ensure you recover well for your next workout., the 10 best fitness trackers for 2021 fitness trackers are a great way to measure your daily activities and health stats. here…, fit it in: a healthline original video series ever struggled to fit fitness into your everyday life? we're here to provide accessible…, a healthy aging guide to strength training and stretching at home weight lifting and stretching are beneficial at any age, but there are specific benefits…, workout routines for men: the ultimate guide if you're looking to build muscle and tone your body, a proper exercise regimen is…, try this: 18 yoga poses to create your ideal morning routine whether you’re a beginner to the practice or an advanced yogi, there are benefits to yoga…, hiking is not just for able-bodied white people anymore despite its troubled past, the hiking community is slowly transforming into a more inclusive space. read more, assumed a threat out of the gate: exercising while black in america you might not think twice about going for a run in your neighborhood. but as someone who is wrongly perceived as a threat, i…read more, how to rebuild a healthy relationship with exercise after exercise addiction recovering from exercise addiction is no small task, but it is possible when you find the fun in moving again.read more, black women are changing the game for athletes black women are changing the game for athletes. read more, practicing the 8 limbs of yoga will help you understand yoga as it was meant to be the original 8 limbs of yoga offer insight into how yoga has been culturally appropriated. here's how you can honor yoga's…read more, the digital fitness boom is closing gender gaps in health and wellness digital fitness platforms are proving to be an unlikely solution to the disproportionate…, exercise after the covid vaccine: are there risks? is it safe to exercise after the covid vaccine? we've got the answer., how gym closures have affected my mental health — and yours the covid-19 pandemic has shuttered gyms worldwide. this article explores the effects of…, how to shift from ‘body positivity’ to ‘body neutrality’ — and why you… accepting your body and loving it aren't mutually exclusive ideas, but body neutrality…, about us, contact us, privacy policy, privacy settings, advertising policy, health topics, medical affairs, content integrity, newsletters, © 2005-2022 healthline media a red ventures company. all rights reserved. our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. healthline media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. see additional information.]