[shedding pounds is the primary goal of most diet plans, especially when it comes to fad detoxes and cleanses. but not everyone on a diet is looking to lose weight. different diets can achieve different results. and if you’re hoping to improve your brain health and prevent the onset of alzheimer’s disease, you may consider trying the mind diet, which has been linked with slower cognitive decline., alzheimer’s disease — a progressive and devastating neurodegenerative disease causing memory loss and confusion — affects 5.8 million americans and is the most common form of dementia, according to the alzheimer’s association. (1) it’s the sixth-leading cause of death in the united states, with 1 in every 3 seniors dying with alzheimer’s or another form of dementia. (1), although there is no research linking the mind diet with reversing alzheimer’s, there’s plenty of evidence supporting the connection between this dietary approach and preventing the disease., mind (an acronym that stands for the mediterranean-dash intervention for neurodegenerative delay) is a “hybrid of the mediterranean diet and dash diet, and research suggests it may reduce the risk of developing dementia or slow the decline in brain health,” says becky kerkenbush, rd, a clinical dietitian with watertown regional medical center in wisconsin., in a study published in september 2015 in alzheimer’s & dementia, the nutritional epidemiologist martha clare morris, scd, and her colleagues at rush university medical center in chicago referenced past studies on the dietary connection between food and cognitive decline, and then borrowed concepts from the mediterranean diet and the dash diet — two plant-based diets — to develop a meal plan with brain-boosting benefits. (2) thus the mind diet was born., although there are similarities among all three diets, the mind diet is the only one that encourages the consumption of foods that have been found to promote cognitive health., the mind diet focuses on the intake of plant-based foods, and limiting the intake of animal products and foods high in saturated fat. the emphasis is on plants, and what’s noteworthy is that this diet specifically urges a higher consumption of berries and green leafy vegetables., fueling up with flavonoid-rich produce may indeed benefit the mind. blueberries, strawberries, and blackberries appear to prevent cognitive aging in women by up to two and a half years, according to an earlier study published in the annals of neurology. (3) likewise, there’s a link between eating leafy green vegetables — such as kale, spinach, and collard greens — and lower inflammation and oxidative stress, two factors that are associated with alzheimer’s disease, per a previous study published in the journal of the academy of nutrition and dietetics. (4) both types of food are rich in antioxidants and can help reduce inflammation and oxidative stress., oxidative stress occurs when antioxidant defenses are low and the body can’t fight toxic molecules called free radicals. this stress causes cell damage in the brain and throughout the body, and it has been linked with several diseases, including alzheimer’s and cancer., to help improve your cognition, you’ll need to reach for and avoid the following foods:, here’s an overview of what one week of eating on the mind diet might look like:, although the mind diet doesn’t specifically involve exercise, regular physical activity may also help prevent cognitive decline because movement increases blood flow to the brain and helps supply brain cells with nutrients. in fact, regular physical activity can reduce the risk of alzheimer’s disease by up to 50 percent, according to the alzheimer’s research and prevention foundation. ( 6) therefore, exercise in conjunction with the mind diet could provide further protection against memory loss., the mind diet is also different from other popular plans because there’s no calorie counting and no food groups are eliminated. the paleo diet and ketogenic (or keto) diet are more restrictive than the mind diet, says vanessa rissetto, rd, a nutritionist based in hoboken, new jersey. both of these popular diets minimize the consumption of whole grains, and paleo omits dairy, too. the mind diet, on the other hand, isn’t overly restrictive and emphasizes an increased intake of foods with cognitive benefits. as a result, you’re still able to enjoy your favorite meats, sweets, and wines in moderation., keep in mind that while this approach is particularly beneficial to those with a higher risk for alzheimer’s disease or dementia, you don’t have to be older or have a family history of the disease to benefit from this diet. “anyone can benefit from the mind diet due to its overall healthy eating pattern, and there are no negative side effects,” explains kerkenbush., because this diet is plant-based and includes many different types of food, it is generally easy to stick with, whether you’re preparing meals at home or dining out. however, following this diet may result in a slightly higher grocery bill because of the emphasis on berries and nuts, which can be pricier than some packaged, less-healthy snacks., to avoid hurting your budget, dr. morris recommended in a blog post that you occasionally eat frozen berries and use canned beans, which can be just as filling and delicious, but cheaper. you can also save money on nuts by searching for bulk deals online., the most obvious and promising benefit of the mind diet is the possibility of significantly reducing the risk of alzheimer’s disease., to help establish a relationship between the mind diet and this lower risk, the 2015 study conducted at rush university in chicago — which has been nicknamed “the mind diet study” — evaluated the incidences of alzheimer’s disease among 923 participants who were already closely following the mind, the dash, and the mediterranean diet (based on their questionnaire responses) over a five-year period., the study found that the mind diet lowered the risk of alzheimer’s disease by 53 percent., another exciting revelation is that you don’t have to follow the diet strictly to enjoy its brain-boosting benefits. even those who moderately follow the diet may have a 35 percent reduced risk for the disease, the authors note. still, following it closely has an upside: it’s comparable to being 7.5 years younger cognitively than people who don’t follow the diet diligently, according to a june 2015 study published in alzheimer’s & dementia: the journal of the alzheimer’s association. (7), in addition to reducing the risk of alzheimer’s disease, the mind diet can also reduce the risk of parkinson’s disease. a 2018 study published in the journal of nutrition, health, and aging found this way of eating cut the risk and delayed the progression of the disease among older people. (8), because this diet is a hybrid of the mediterranean diet and the dash diet, you may also experience health benefits associated with these particular diets., the dash diet has been linked to reductions in hypertension, thereby diminishing the risk of stroke and heart attack, according to the mayo clinic. (9) the national institutes of health have also endorsed the plan for heart health, as has u.s. news & world report, which releases annual rankings on the best popular diets. (10, 11), meanwhile, the mediterranean diet is a popular plan touted by dietitians, and for good reason: a study published in the july–august 2015 issue of progress in cardiovascular diseases linked the approach to improvements in blood pressure, a reduced risk of heart disease, and better insulin sensitivity. (12) that makes it a plus for anyone at risk of heart disease or anyone managing prediabetes or diabetes., the only known disadvantage of the mind diet (if you even want to call it a disadvantage) is that it requires patience, effort, and careful meal planning to ensure you’re consuming the right amount of food servings according to the diet’s guidelines., to stay committed to the goal, come up with an accountability system and plan out all your meals for the week — breakfast, lunch, and dinner. more labor-intensive meals can be partially prepared ahead of time: precut and store vegetables in plastic bowls, cut up fruit for smoothies and place in individual freezer bags, and precook your rice and beans., the mind diet may differ from other diets in that it’s not for weight loss. but the results of this diet will be positive if you’re looking to reduce the risk of alzheimer’s disease and protect your brain., keeping up with this diet does take planning and determination. but don’t get discouraged if you fall slightly off track. you don’t have to stick rigorously to the diet to enjoy the health benefits., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., editorial sources and fact-checking, , a diet rich in unprocessed carbs, veggies, and seafood — and maybe a short fast every few months — could add significant years to your life., fizzy water is more popular than ever, but does it hydrate you the same way still water does? read on to see what experts say about carbonation and hydration..., weight loss may be similar when people focus only on calorie reduction and when they combine this with intermittent fasting, a new study suggests., over 770,000 of the kitchen appliances have been sold in the u.s. and canada., researchers say greater oversight is needed to ensure that label claims are truthful., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][the mind diet: can this diet plan help prevent or reverse alzheimer’s disease?, what is the mind diet plan, and how does it incorporate the dash and mediterranean diets?, most recent in diet and nutrition, 8 creative taco recipes bursting with nutrition, the blue zones diet: a complete scientific guide, 10 scientific benefits of the blue zones diet, want to live to 100? the answer may lie in the ‘longevity diet’, how does the mind diet work to boost brain health?, a mind diet food list with the best and worst foods, foods to eat on the mind diet, foods to limit on the mind diet, editor’s picks on building a healthy diet, 8 smart ways to sneak heart-healthy foods into your diet, eat these 10 foods to help cut your risk for alzheimer’s disease, over 50? add these 7 foods to your diet now, 5 tricks for getting enough fruit and veggies, a sample 7-day meal plan for the mind diet, day 1, day 2, day 3, day 4, day 5, day 6, day 7, how does the mind diet differ from other diet plans?, 10 amazing benefits of exercise, most popular in diet and nutrition, 10 best and worst oils for your health, 8 foods high in magnesium, 5 reasons why you should eat oatmeal every day, the 7 healthiest salad dressings for weight loss, the risks and benefits of the mind diet you should know, 10 brain exercises that boost memory, more eating approaches like the mind diet, should you try the mind diet for weight loss or brain health benefits?, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in diet & nutrition, the blue zones diet: a complete scientific guide, 10 scientific benefits of the blue zones diet, want to live to 100? the answer may lie in the ‘longevity diet’, sea greens 101: types, benefits, where to buy them, and more, does sparkling water count as fluid?, why intermittent fasting may not help when you’re already cutting calories, best buy recalls insignia air fryers and air fryer ovens after reports of fires, quercetin: what it is, how much you need, and where to find it, all about moringa (drumstick tree): a complete scientific guide, ‘no antibiotics’ labels on beef may not always be accurate, what is the sirtfood diet? registered dietitians explain the diet behind adele’s weight loss, u.s. news & world report reveals best and worst diets of 2022, the best and worst diets for sustained weight loss, according to registered dietitians]the mind diet for alzheimer’s prevention: a comprehensive guide | everyday health[what is the mind diet plan, and how does it incorporate the dash and mediterranean diets?, foods to eat on the mind diet, foods to limit on the mind diet, breakfast, lunch, dinner, breakfast, lunch, dinner, breakfast, lunch, dinner, breakfast , lunch , dinner , dinner , breakfast , breakfast , lunch , lunch , dinner , dinner , breakfast , lunch , dinner , dinner , breakfast , lunch , lunch , dinner , editorial sources and fact-checking][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, green leafy vegetables (kale, spinach, collard greens, lettuce): a minimum of 6 servings a week, nuts (almonds, cashews, pistachios): a minimum of 5 servings a week, berries (strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, blackberries): a minimum of 2 servings a week, beans (black beans, pinto beans, kidney beans): a minimum of 3 servings a week, whole grains (quinoa, oatmeal, brown rice, whole-grain pasta and bread): a minimum of 3 servings a day (5), fish (salmon, tuna, trout): at least 1 serving a week, poultry (chicken, turkey): at least twice a week, olive oil as the primary oil used, wine: no more than 1 glass a day, red meat (steak, ground beef, pork, lamb): no more than 4 servings a week, butter and margarine: no more than 1 tablespoon daily, cheese (brie, mozzarella, or cheddar): no more than 1 serving a week, sweets (cakes, brownies, ice cream): no more than 5 servings a week, fried or fast food (french fries, chicken nuggets, onion rings, fried chicken, hamburgers): no more than 1 serving a week, breakfast banana-strawberry smoothie, lunch kale caesar salad, dinner chili made with ground turkey and quinoa, breakfast vegetable breakfast frittata and a slice of toast, lunch tuna salad sandwich on whole-wheat bread, dinner pecan-crusted chicken with roasted broccoli, breakfast blueberry-walnut pancakes, lunch grilled chicken sandwich on whole-wheat bread with celery and hummus, dinner roasted turkey with a cabbage salad and a whole-wheat dinner roll, breakfast greek yogurt with raspberries and 15 almonds, lunch kale and spinach salad with carrots, bell peppers, mushrooms, tomatoes, chickpeas, olive-oil based salad dressing, and brown rice, dinner whole-wheat pasta with chicken and marinara sauce, roasted broccoli, and side salad, breakfast oatmeal with blueberries and slivered almonds, lunch grilled chicken, ½ pita, kale salad with chickpeas, feta cheese, tomatoes, cucumbers, and olive oil, dinner baked salmon with broccoli and brussels sprouts (roasted in olive oil), quinoa, and a glass of wine, breakfast whole-wheat bagel sandwich with 1 scrambled egg and blueberries on the side, lunch turkey sandwich on whole-wheat bread with tomato slice, lettuce, hummus, and baby carrots on the side, dinner quinoa stir fry with sautéed vegetables, beans, and olive oil, breakfast whole-wheat toast with scrambled eggs and slices of avocado, lunch spinach salad with strawberries, chickpeas, slivered almonds, olive oil dressing, and a small whole-grain roll, dinner grilled salmon with sautéed spinach and 1/3 cup brown rice, alzheimer’s disease facts and figures. alzheimer’s association. 2019., morris mc, tangney cc, wang y, et al. mind diet associated with reduced incidence of alzheimer’s disease. alzheimer’s & dementia. september 2015., devore ee, kang jh, breteler mm, et al. dietary intake of berries and flavonoids in relation to cognitive decline. annals of neurology. july 2012., holt em, steffen lm, moran a, et al. fruit and vegetable consumption and its relation to markers of inflammation and oxidative stress in adolescents. journal of the academy of nutrition and dietetics. march 2009., how much is enough? oldways whole grains council., pillar 3: exercise & brain aerobics. alzheimer’s research & prevention foundation., morris mc, tangney cc, wang, y, et al. mind diet slows cognitive decline with age. alzheimer’s & dementia: the journal of the alzheimer’s association. june 15, 2015., agarwal p, wang y, buchman as, et al. mind diet associated with reduced incidence and delayed progression of parkinsonism in old age. the journal of nutrition, health and aging. 2018., nutrition and healthy eating. mayo clinic. april 8, 2016., your guide to lowering blood pressure. national institutes of health. may 2003., best diets overall. u.s. news and world report., martínez-gonzález ma, salas-salvadó j, estruch r, et al. benefits of the mediterranean diet: insights from the predimed study. progress in cardiovascular diseases. july-august 2015., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]