[the ketogenic diet may be the “it” low-carb diet for weight loss right now, but its predecessor the atkins diet is the original version of this restrictive eating approach. “atkins and keto are both low-carb diets that may benefit weight loss, diabetes management, and heart health,” says vanessa rissetto, rd, a nutritionist based in hoboken, new jersey., in addition to keto being much higher in fat than atkins, a main difference between atkins and keto, rissetto says, “is that you gradually increase your carb intake on atkins," meanwhile, she adds, carbs “remain very low on the keto diet, allowing your body to stay in ketosis and burn ketones for energy.”, today, the diet, also called the atkins nutritional approach, comes in three versions. (1), atkins 20 is for people who:, atkins 40 is for people who:, atkins 100 is for people who:, before trying any version of the atkins diet — and especially if you are pregnant and considering atkins 100 — check with your healthcare team., all forms of the atkins diet are focused on restricting what are called net carbs (including those in veggies) and emphasize eating protein and healthy types of fat. select carbs are added back to your diet as you start approaching your weight loss goal., atkins defines net carbs as grams of carbs minus grams of fiber and grams of sugar alcohols. (note that the u.s. food and drug administration [fda] does not recognize "net carbs" as an accepted nutritional term.) (2), atkins 20 and atkins 40 involve various phases, while atkins 100 is considered a lifestyle approach and calls for consuming no more than 100 net carbs per day. in atkins 20, your initial, “induction” phase limits you to 20 grams (g) of net carbohydrates, while in atkins 40, your initial, induction, phase limits you to 40 g of net carbohydrates, which gives you a little more flexibility in the foods you can eat in the beginning (including, for example, select fruits), the atkins website notes. (1) in atkins 20, you add net carbs back to your diet in 5 g increments (20, 25, 30, and so on), while in atkins 40, you add net carbs back to your diet in 10 g increments, explains lauren popeck, rd, of orlando health in florida., when you aren’t on a low-carb diet, choosing complex, not simple, carbohydrates provides more nutrients and steady energy. find out the best sources!, to help jump-start your weight loss on the atkins 20, you might consume some of the following foods:, you can find a full, comprehensive food list for phase one of the atkins 20 on the atkins website. (3), if you’re following the atkins 40 plan, you can eat all of the above, as well as the following foods (so long as you keep net carbs under 40 g per day): (4), atkins 100 followers can eat virtually all foods, so long as you do not exceed 100 g of net carbs per day. carbs can add up fast if you’re eating sugar or refined carbs, so it’s best to limit or avoid those. (1), the entire atkins diet is available for free online., the premise of the atkins diet is that if you count and limit carbs — the body’s usual fuel — your body will be forced to burn your fat stores for energy, thereby promoting weight loss. as with many other fad diets, the main idea is to stop eating foods made with refined flour and sugar. but if you’re trying to follow the atkins 20, even carb-dense whole-grain foods are on the don’t-eat list until you reach the maintenance phase., “cutting out carbs can contribute to weight loss initially. however, eliminating whole food groups, such as grains, milk, yogurt, and fruit, is likely unsustainable and inadequate in nutrients,” popeck cautions. “fiber will certainly be lacking, as well as calcium, potassium, and other vitamins and minerals.” more on this in the cons section., related: what is an elimination or exclusion diet?, the atkins 20 and atkins 40 versions of the diet are divided into different phases., the first phase, induction, can last from as little as two weeks to many months, depending on your goals., the next phase, which focuses on ongoing weight loss, allows you to gradually increase your daily carb total., atkins 20 during phase 2 of atkins 20, you’ll add more net carbs in 5 g increments and add variety to your diet with antioxidant-rich berries, some nuts and seeds, and more vegetables., (in the atkins 20 plan, there are technically two phases here: phase 2 and phase 3, with phase 3 starting once you’re within 10 lb of your goal weight. both phases focus on adding carbs back into your diet while you continue to lose weight.), atkins 40 during phase 2 of this plan, you add more carbs in 10 g increments primarily by increasing your portion sizes. the diet recommends moving into this phase when you are within 10 lb of your goal weight., you can keep increasing carbs on both plans until you see weight loss slow or stop. at that point, depending on how close you are to your desired weight, you can move on to weight maintenance or cut back on carbohydrates if weight loss has slowed too much. because protein and fats are more filling than refined carbs, the idea is you will actually tend to eat less quantity-wise yet feel full at each stage., the final phase, which you start when you’ve reached your goal weight and have maintained it for at least a month, is a lifetime weight-maintenance plan, keeping daily net carbs to about 80 to 100 g., shed unwanted pounds with these experts’ top tips., all plans recommend avoiding sugar and refined carbs, popeck explains. in addition, here are some of the main foods you’ll be tasked with eating and avoiding on each plan:, atkins 20 food list (5), atkins 40 and atkins 100 food list (1,4), yes, it is possible for vegetarians and vegans to follow the atkins diet, though meeting protein goals will be more difficult since many go-to protein sources — such as fish and meat (and dairy for vegans) — are off-limits., knowing this, researchers in toronto developed the eco atkins diet. (6) it calls for 31 percent of calories to come from protein (soy protein, nuts, and veggie burgers for vegans, and eggs, cheese, and tofu for vegetarians), 43 percent from fat (olive oil, avocado, and nuts), and 26 percent from carbohydrates (fruit, vegetables, and whole grains)., a small study published in february 2014 in bmj open found that participants lost about 15 lb after six months on the vegan version of the eco atkins diet. (7), vegans and vegetarians on the atkins diet should also take a multivitamin and a fish oil supplement (or flax oil for vegans) to ensure they’re getting proper amounts of nutrients. it’s also recommended that those on the eco atkins version of the diet jump right into atkins 20 phase 2 or atkins 40 since the induction phase can be very difficult. (6), your weekly menu will differ depending on which atkins plan you’re following., here’s how a week of eating on the atkins 20 diet might look. (8), day 1, day 2, day 3, day 4, day 5, day 6, day 7, here’s how a week of eating on the atkins 40 diet might look. (2,9), day 1, day 2, day 3, day 4, day 5, day 6, day 7, here’s how a week of eating on the atkins 100 diet might look. (10), day 1, day 2, day 3, day 4, day 5, day 6, day 7, if you’re on the atkins 20 plan, you could choose from snacks such as: (11), if you’re on the atkins 40 plan, you can have all of the above and snacks such as: (4), followers of the atkins 100 plan can have any snacks, so long as the daily net carbs doesn’t exceed 100 g., whether you’re planning for the atkins 20, atkins 40, or atkins 100 diet, here are some essential foods you’ll want to shop for:, you can find more suggested meal plans and shopping lists on the atkins website., one may be a better fit than the other, depending on your health goals., with a little planning, it’s entirely possible to stick to the diet while dining out. first, consider food genre when you choose a restaurant. “pick a restaurant that serves more protein-based dishes, such as an american restaurant over an italian restaurant,” says rebecca guterman, rd, a clinical dietitian at mount sinai hospital in new york city., and scan the menu online before you arrive so you can plot your order ahead of time. look for dishes that center on lean meats and vegetables, rissetto says. a safe bet is a salad topped with grilled chicken or a burger with no bun and a side salad, she says., here are a few low-carb dishes at popular restaurants around the country: (12), avoid adding condiments to your meal (ketchup, honey mustard, and barbecue sauce are sneakily high in carbs) and opt for a side salad or extra vegetables over a starchy side. (12), like any popular diet, there are both benefits and risks to following a restricted eating plan. here’s a look at some of them for the atkins diet., there are a handful of possible pros to following the atkins nutritional approach., for one, the diet is relatively easy to stick to. “for people who have a weight problem, every meal is a battle, a tremendous psychological burden. a carbohydrate-restricted diet eliminates the battle,” says richard d. feinman, phd, a biochemistry professor at the state university of new york downstate medical center in brooklyn, new york, and the founder and former co-editor in chief of the journal nutrition & metabolism. dr. feinman has published scientific research on atkins and carbohydrate-restricted diets. “protein is the stable part of the diet — that is going to give you some control over the fight with food,” he says., also, the diet is not based on portion control, which some people may view as a hurdle in popular diets. “what does portion control really mean? self-control — and that doesn’t really have a good record,” says feinman. “small portions are good, but on a low-carbohydrate diet, if you are still hungry, you can eat another small portion. on a low-fat diet, if you are still hungry, you may be out of luck.”, susan kraus, rd, a clinical dietitian at the hackensack university medical center in new jersey, says the simple structure of the atkins diet can make it straightforward for some people to adhere to. “people feel it’s easy to follow,” she says. “you focus on a few food groups, there’s simplicity in that you don’t have to measure foods, and you’re not feeling deprived.”, following the low-carb fad diet may also help people with type 2 diabetes who are looking for a solution to high blood sugar. “reducing carbohydrates has a health benefit, whether or not you lose weight,” says feinman. for example, a january 2015 review published in nutrition shows carbohydrate restriction can help in the treatment of type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. (13), on the flip side, you’re not getting a well-balanced diet with the atkins nutritional approach. “with any diet that eliminates a whole food group, you’re not going to get all your nutrients,” says barbara schmidt, rd, a lifestyle specialist at norwalk hospital and a nutritionist in private practice in new canaan, connecticut., then there’s the lack of fiber, an important nutrient that can help you feel full and curb unhealthy cravings. “omitting all these food groups — [such as] grains and fruit — even if you make up nutrients with a vitamin and mineral supplement, you’re not getting enough fiber,” kraus says. “there are also many phytochemicals, which are compounds found naturally in fruits and veggies, that provide strong antioxidant effects (and that might not be found in a general multivitamin and mineral supplement), along with fiber, calcium, and vitamin d, that would not be gotten by eating this way.”, last, the atkins diet may cause dehydration, which could lead to light-headedness or energy loss, according to the atkins website. (14) carbs hold on to water in your body, so when you don’t eat carbs, you lose a lot of water weight. this can also raise your uric acid level and cause a gout attack, increase calcium loss through urine, and overwork your kidneys and liver, says kraus., in an article published in may 2015 in advances in nutrition, researchers caution that although high-protein diets may be beneficial for some people looking to lose weight, it’s important to consult your healthcare provider to make sure this approach is safe for you. (15) some research, like a study published in the annals of internal medicine, shows a high-protein diet may lead to reduced kidney function in women with prior mild renal dysfunction. (16), regardless, if you’re upping your protein intake, be sure to drink extra water. the atkins diet recommends drinking at least eight 8 oz glasses of water per day. (14), “in the short term, by following the atkins diet, you can see results quickly. you limit food intake because you naturally don’t feel hungry,” says kraus. “a generally healthy person can be on it for a few months without adverse effects.” even if you don’t lose weight, your health might still benefit. a small june 2019 study published in the journal of clinical investigation insight found about half of the study participants, who were obese people with metabolic syndrome (which can lead to type 2 diabetes) at the start of the study, no longer qualified as having metabolic syndrome after following a low-carb diet for four weeks. (17), it may not be good to eat this way forever, though. following a low-carb diet may increase the risk of atrial fibrillation (afib), which is a common heart rhythm disorder, according to a march 2019 study published in the journal of the american college of cardiology. (18) kraus also has concerns that it can affect the way dieters view food: “drastic plans cause a warped view of how to lose weight, creating a different sense of what’s okay and what’s not okay. a dieter might be mortified to have a little pasta or slice of bread.”, on the other hand, feinman’s take on the atkins diet is somewhat tongue-in-cheek: “losing weight is easy: don’t eat. if you have to eat, don’t eat carbs; if you have to eat carbs, choose carbs that are low on the glycemic index.”, as low-carb diets have grown in popularity, researchers have conducted a number of studies to assess the diets' effectiveness and additional health effects. the harvard school of public health notes that some research shows low-carb diets can help people lose weight more quickly — and maintain it better —  than low-fat diets can, and that moderately low-carb diets can be heart-healthy, as long as protein and fat choices come from healthy sources. (19), a past meta-analysis looked at 23 randomized controlled trials with more than 2,500 participants. (20) the researchers found that, compared with participants on a low-fat diet, participants on a low-carb diet experienced a small but statistically significant reduction in total cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and at least similar reductions in weight, waist circumference, and other disease risk factors. another study, published in october 2018 in the bmj, found low-carb dieters were able to maintain weight loss because they burned about 200 extra calories per day compared with those following a diet with higher carbs. (21), the low-carb diet works like this: when carb intake is low, the body is forced to burn fat for fuel instead, creating ketone bodies that are used for energy, popeck explains. ketones are by-products of metabolism, and they are produced during a process called ketosis, when the body turns to burning fat rather than carbs — a common phenomenon in those people who follow low-carb diets, such as the atkins diet and the keto diet., but popeck also notes that it is unclear whether such diets work in the long run. “i believe low-carb diets may be nutritionally unbalanced and difficult to maintain,” she says. “i work with many patients in my clinic who have tried the atkins diet and successfully lost weight, but then [they] regain the lost weight and in turn have a difficult time losing weight again.”, that’s why she doesn’t recommend them. “i don’t like to promote diets, because most people view them as temporary,” she explains. “for some, a low-carb program may pave the way toward healthier choices simply by eliminating sugars, sweets, and processed foods. overall, though, in my experience, feelings of deprivation usually lead to rebound bingeing, not permanent change.”, instead, she says, she encourages her clients to try to think of diet planning more as a lifestyle — one in which all foods can fit., additional reporting by julie davis canter and stephanie bucklin., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., a diet rich in unprocessed carbs, veggies, and seafood — and maybe a short fast every few months — could add significant years to your life., fizzy water is more popular than ever, but does it hydrate you the same way still water does? read on to see what experts say about carbonation and hydration..., weight loss may be similar when people focus only on calorie reduction and when they combine this with intermittent fasting, a new study suggests., over 770,000 of the kitchen appliances have been sold in the u.s. and canada., researchers say greater oversight is needed to ensure that label claims are truthful., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][atkins diet: the ultimate guide, most recent in diet and nutrition, 8 creative taco recipes bursting with nutrition, the blue zones diet: a complete scientific guide, 10 scientific benefits of the blue zones diet, want to live to 100? the answer may lie in the ‘longevity diet’, an overview of the 3 atkins diet plans, how to tell the difference between good and bad carbs, atkins 20 foods, atkins 40 foods, atkins 100 foods, editor’s picks on low-carb diets, 10 popular low-carb diets, and their pros and cons, which is better: low-carb or low-fat? neither, new research suggests, is keto, paleo, or atkins the best low-carb diet for type 2 diabetes?, for a longer life, avoid high- and low-carb diets, study finds, what’s involved in the 4 phases of the atkins diet?, phase 1, phase 2, phase 3, 21 tips for weight loss that actually work, the top foods to eat and avoid on the atkins diet, can vegetarians and vegans follow the atkins diet?, how to follow a vegetarian ketogenic diet in a healthy way, a 7-day sample menu for the atkins 20, atkins 40, and atkins 100 diets, atkins 20, atkins 40, atkins 100, most popular in diet and nutrition, what to eat and avoid on the keto diet, a complete guide to the mediterranean diet, 10 best and worst oils for your health, is the 3-day military diet safe and effective for weight loss?, atkins-friendly snack ideas, a basic atkins diet shopping list to follow, what’s the difference between atkins and keto?, tips for dining out when you’re on atkins, pros and cons of following atkins, pros, 5 reasons it’s harder to lose weight with age, cons, can a low-carb diet lead to a heart rhythm disorder?, more diet plans like atkins, short- and long-term effects of the atkins diet, more editor’s picks on low-carb diets, how to combine keto and intermittent fasting, how to count carbs for better blood sugar control, study suggests how low-carb diets help with weight loss, on keto? 8 signs the high-fat, low-carb diet isn’t right for you, a final word on using atkins to lose weight, the 10 most famous fad diets of all time, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in diet & nutrition, the blue zones diet: a complete scientific guide, 10 scientific benefits of the blue zones diet, want to live to 100? the answer may lie in the ‘longevity diet’, sea greens 101: types, benefits, where to buy them, and more, does sparkling water count as fluid?, why intermittent fasting may not help when you’re already cutting calories, best buy recalls insignia air fryers and air fryer ovens after reports of fires, quercetin: what it is, how much you need, and where to find it, all about moringa (drumstick tree): a complete scientific guide, ‘no antibiotics’ labels on beef may not always be accurate, 15 healthy low-carb breakfast recipes, 12 popular low-carb diets, and their pros and cons, how do you tell the difference between good and bad carbohydrates?]atkins diet: the ultimate guide | everyday health[atkins 20 foods, atkins 40 foods, atkins 100 foods, related: what is an elimination or exclusion diet?, phase 1, phase 2, atkins 20, atkins 40, phase 3, atkins 20 food list, atkins 40 and atkins 100 food list, atkins 20, day 1, breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner, day 2, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 3, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 4, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 5, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 6, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 7, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, atkins 40, day 1, breakfast, lunch, snack, dinner, day 2, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 3, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 4, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 5, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 6, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 7, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, atkins 100, day 1, breakfast, snacks, lunch, dinner, day 2, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 3, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 4, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 5, breakfast, lunch, snacks, dinner, day 6, breakfast , lunch, snacks, dinner, day 7, breakfast , lunch, snacks, dinner, proteins, , vegetables , fats , fruits , full-fat dairy products , chili’s, olive garden, the cheesecake factory, p.f. chang’s, pros, cons][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, want to lose more than 40 pounds (lb), have a waist circumference of over 35 inches (women) or 40 inches (men), or, have prediabetes or type 2 diabetes, want to lose fewer than 40 lb, are pregnant or breastfeeding, and want to lose weight, require a diet with a wider variety of foods, want to maintain their current weight, are pregnant, are breastfeeding and trying to maintain their weight, foundation veggies, such as broccoli, spinach, bok choy, and cucumbers, protein, like eggs, chicken, and beef, all fish, including salmon, cod, flounder, and herring, butter and olive oil, some cheeses, such as cheddar, goat, swiss, and parmesan, nuts and seeds, legumes (beans), fruit, starchy vegetables, like squash, potatoes, and beets, whole grains, like barley, whole-grain rice, and whole-wheat pasta, eat: foundation vegetables like spinach, cauliflower, broccoli, and more; healthy fats like olive oil and butter; nuts and seeds; and most cheeses, avoid: fruits like pineapples and mangoes; and starchy vegetables, like potatoes; and grains, at least initially, eat: all the foods recommended for atkins 20, along with fruits like cherries, berries, and melons; legumes; some starchy vegetables, like squash and potatoes; and whole grains, avoid: white or processed carbs, like white bread or pretzels, and hidden sources of sugar, breakfast cheese and spinach omelet with avocado and salsa, lunch roast chicken stir-fry, snack mozzarella string cheese, dinner chicken and broccoli alfredo and a salad, breakfast scrambled eggs with sautéed onions and cheddar cheese, lunch taco bowl with beef, ½ an avocado, mixed greens, tomato, onions, and green peppers, snacks atkins caramel chocolate nut roll bar; muffin in a minute, dinner fish with artichoke sauce, cauliflower, and a spinach salad, breakfast tomato, avocado, spinach, and monterey jack stacks, lunch atkins frozen orange chicken, snacks atkins milk chocolate delight shake; 2 stalks celery with 2 tablespoons (tbsp) cream cheese, dinner stuffed pork chops with fonduta and fennel gratinata and broccoli, breakfast red bell pepper stuffed with eggs and spinach, lunch atkins chocolate peanut butter bar, snacks 1 cup sliced cucumber with 2 tbsp green goddess dressing; atkins french vanilla shake, dinner atkins frozen crustless chicken pot pie with ½ cup brussels sprouts and 1 tbsp olive oil, breakfast atkins frozen ham and cheese omelet, lunch atkins frozen chili con carne with 2 cups mixed greens and 2 tbsp italian dressing, snacks 1 cup sliced red bell pepper with 2 tbsp ranch dressing; atkins strawberry shake, dinner chicken chorizo and cauliflower sauté with cheese and sausage, breakfast beef sautéed with peppers and onions and topped with cheese, lunch atkins creamy chocolate shake, snacks atkins caramel chocolate peanut nougat bar; 5 snap peas with 2 ounces (oz) of cheddar, dinner atkins frozen beef merlot, breakfast atkins chocolate almond caramel bar, lunch cobb salad, snacks 2 celery stalks with 2 oz cheddar; ½ cup chopped red bell pepper with 2 tbsp ranch dressing, dinner atkins frozen meatloaf with portobello mushroom gravy, breakfast cheese and spinach omelet with avocado and salsa and a slice of whole-grain toast, lunch roast chicken stir-fry, snack handful of walnuts or ¼ cup of blueberries, dinner chicken and broccoli alfredo and a salad, breakfast chicken chorizo with cauliflower sauté, cheese, and salsa, lunch chicken over baby kale caesar salad, snacks atkins milk chocolate delight shake; ½ small banana with 2 tbsp peanut butter, dinner 6 oz salmon with ¼ cup wild rice, 2 cups mixed greens, and ½ cup sliced cucumbers, breakfast atkins plus vanilla shake, lunch atkins frozen shrimp scampi with 2 cups mixed greens, 1 small tomato, ½ avocado, and 2 tbsp caesar dressing, snacks 1 carrot with ¼ cup hummus; ½ cup blackberries with ½ cup greek yogurt, dinner chimichurri steak and cauliflower mash, breakfast oatmeal topped with ¼ cup chopped pecans and ¼ cup sliced strawberries, lunch 5 oz hamburger, 1 oz cheddar cheese, 1 medium tomato, ½ avocado, and 2 bibb lettuce leaves, snacks creamy lemon smoothie; ½ cup chopped green bell pepper with 1 oz feta cheese and 2 tbsp green goddess dressing, dinner 6 oz whitefish with ¼ cup lentils, 1 cup green beans, and 1 tbsp butter, breakfast atkins frozen farmhouse-style sausage scramble, lunch 6 oz turkey cutlets, 2 cups mixed greens, ½ cup sliced green bell pepper, ½ cup sliced cucumber, ½ avocado, and 2 tbsp raspberry vinaigrette, snacks ½ small apple and 2 oz cheddar cheese; 2 celery stalks with 2 tbsp feta-ranch dressing, dinner pork chops with fresh mushrooms, tomatoes, and bell pepper with ½ small baked potato, 2 tbsp butter, and 2 tbsp sour cream, breakfast breakfast mexi peppers, lunch cucumber, onion, and tomato salad with creamy feta dressing and 4 oz turkey salami, snacks ½ avocado and 2 tbsp greek vinaigrette; ½ medium pear and 1 oz brie cheese, dinner 6 oz chicken, ¾ cup stir-fry vegetables, 1 tbsp olive oil, 1 tbsp tamari sauce, and ¼ cup brown rice, breakfast double chocolate protein pancakes, lunch canned tuna with snap peas, red bell pepper, and tomato and ½ whole-wheat pita, snacks atkins peanut butter fudge crisp bar; ½ medium zucchini with ¼ cup hummus, dinner traditional beef stroganoff, breakfast scrambled eggs with bacon, green bell peppers, tomato, and half a whole-wheat bagel, snacks small apple with 1 oz cheddar cheese; atkins white chocolate macadamia nut bar, lunch atkins frozen meat lasagna with two cups of mixed greens, ½ cup sliced cucumber, 5 cherry tomatoes, ? cup shredded carrot, and 2 tbsp creamy italian dressing, dinner popcorn garlic shrimp with 2 cups steamed broccoli and cauliflower and ½ cup brown rice, breakfast milk chocolate protein muffin and a small banana, lunch macaroni and cauliflower salad with 5 oz hamburger, 2 tbsp onions, 2 tbsp barbecue sauce, and a whole-wheat bun, snacks atkins mocha latte shake; ½ cup strawberries and 4 oz plain, unsweetened greek yogurt, dinner 6 oz chicken breast, 2 tbsp cajun rub, ¼ baked acorn squash, 2 cups mixed greens, 5 cherry tomatoes, ¼ cup chickpeas, and 2 tbsp blue cheese dressing, breakfast atkins farmhouse-style sausage scramble with ½ cup cubed honeydew melon, lunch atkins frozen chicken marsala with 2 cups mixed greens, ½ cup sliced red bell pepper, and 2 tbsp parmesan peppercorn dressing, snacks atkins dark chocolate royale shake; 4 tbsp black bean dip with 15 corn tortilla chips, dinner 6 oz flank steak, 2 tbsp barbecue rub, 1 medium sweet potato, 2 cups baby kale, 1 small tomato, ¼ cup shredded carrot, and 2 tbsp maple-dijon dressing, breakfast atkins frozen ham and cheese omelet, lunch grilled lime chicken over spinach salad with feta-ranch dressing and sweet cherry pie, snacks atkins mocha latte shake with a small banana; 1 large tomato with 4 tbsp hummus, dinner quick barbecued pork and classic coleslaw with whole-wheat bun and ¼ of a whole acorn squash, breakfast french toast loaf with ¼ cup blueberries and 10 pecan halves, lunch chicken salad sandwich with grapes and walnuts, snacks ½ medium cucumber and 4 tbsp black bean dip; atkins peanut butter fudge crisp bar and 1 small apple, dinner atkins frozen stone fired three meat pizza with 2 cups mixed greens, ½ cup sliced green bell pepper, ? cup chickpeas, 2 tbsp of garlic ranch dressing, and cinnamon-almond meringues, breakfast orange-sour cream waffles with fresh blueberry sauce, lunch atkins frozen mexican-style chicken and vegetables with ½ cup wild rice, snacks atkins french vanilla shake; ½ whole-wheat bagel with 1 tbsp cream cheese, dinner fajita steak and fresh guacamole with ¼ cup black beans, ¼ cup salsa cruda, and two 6-inch corn tortillas, breakfast protein powered oatmeal and ½ cup blueberries, lunch daikon and celery salad with 3.2 ounces italian sausage link, 1 cup whole-wheat macaroni, and ½ cup basic tomato sauce, snacks 1 small tomato with ½ cup cottage cheese; atkins dark chocolate almond coconut crunch bar, dinner atkins frozen orange chicken with ¼ cup brown rice and ½ cup peas, black olives with cheddar, crab dip with vegetables, cucumber guacamole, kale chips, smoked salmon, cucumber, and cream cheese roll-ups, ¾ cup of blackberries, greek yogurt, a slice of whole-grain toast with almond butter, hummus, proteins, including pork chops, chicken, ground beef, salmon, steak, and whitefish, vegetables like asparagus, broccoli, cauliflower, radishes, mushrooms, and spinach, fats like olive oil and butter, fruits like avocados, full-fat dairy products like cheddar cheese, blue cheese dressing, and cream, chili’s chicken or steak fajitas without tortillas and toppings and with a double serving of vegetables instead of rice, olive garden herb-grilled salmon with parmesan garlic broccoli on the side, the cheesecake factory pan seared branzino with lemon butter, p.f. chang’s shrimp with lobster sauce, how it works: compare atkins diet plans. atkins., how it works: what are net carbs? atkins., how it works: list of low carb foods for atkins 20, phase 1. atkins., how it works: the atkins 40 low carb diet plan. atkins., how it works: atkins 20, phase 1: induction. atkins., how it works: the low-carb vegetarian & vegan diet. atkins., jenkins dja, wong jmw, kendall cwc, et al. effect of a 6-month vegan low-carbohydrate ("eco-atkins") diet on cardiovascular risk factors and body weight in hyperlipidaemic adults: a randomised controlled trial. bmj open. february 5, 2014., atkins 20: standard meal plan. atkins., atkins 40: standard meal plan. atkins., atkins 100: standard meal plan. atkins., recipes. atkins., how it works: low carb and keto diet restaurant options tips. atkins., feinman fd, pogozelski wk, astrup arne, et al. dietary carbohydrate restriction as the first approach in diabetes management: critical review and evidence base. nutrition. january 2015., how it works: diet tips & advice for atkins 20, phase 1. atkins., cuenca-sánchez m, navas-carrillo d, orenes-piñero e. controversies surrounding high-protein diet intake: satiating effect and kidney and bone health. advances in nutrition. may 2015., knight el, stampfer mj, hankinson se, et al. the impact of protein intake on renal function decline in women with normal renal function or mild renal insufficiency. annals of internal medicine. march 2003., hyde pn, sapper tn, crabtree cd, et al. dietary carbohydrate restriction improves metabolic syndrome independent of weight loss. journal of clinical investigation insight. june 20, 2019., zhuang x, zhang s, zhou h, et al. u-shaped relationship between carbohydrate intake proportion and incident atrial fibrillation. journal of the american college of cardiology. march 2019., the nutrition source — low-carbohydrate diets. harvard t.h. chan school of public health., hu t, mills kt, yao l, et al. effects of low-carbohydrate diets versus low-fat diets on metabolic risk factors: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled clinical trials. american journal of epidemiology. october 2012., ebbeling cb, feldman ha, klein gl, et al. effects of a low carbohydrate diet on energy expenditure during weight loss maintenance: randomized trial. the bmj. october 24, 2018., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]