[  chinmay kulkarni,   yash kulkarni,    it & software, network & security, cyber security,   language - english,    published on 07/2020, , the field of technology is growing exponentially with the it sector flourishing every day. amidst such growth of the industry and increased concern for privacy, the demand for security is rising. cybersecurity has become an everyday struggle for many businesses. recent trends and statistics reveal that there is a huge increase in hacked and breached data from very common sources at workplaces. so go for this course to get a better understanding of cyber security!, most of the people are often confused when they are asked - “what is cyber security?” the most common reply is - “um, hacking. ” well, hacking is part of cyber security but it doesn’t mean that hacking is the synonym of cyber security. many courses out there only teach how to use the tool but the reasoning that goes behind its selection is not taught. also, the main focus of these courses is on hacking but it is not the only domain in cyber security. other major domains are incident response management, blue team, security audits, it security management, security laws and many more., ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, " i was doubting on this course as this was a new one. but getting started with the course gave me a good insight of cyber security and all my concepts were cleared about computer networking in the first section itself. no course based on cyber security includes networking but this course has covered the same so i preferred this course. "  ~ student, ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, well university of maryland, united states, says,, hackers attack every 39 seconds, on average 2,244 times a day., so are you sure that your data is well protected from these hackers? have you even configured your network to control your privacy? do you know how hackers can access your devices without your knowledge?? well, don’t worry! we are here to answer these questions. there must be many questions in your mind regarding this course. we will surely address all once you enroll for this course, but for the time being, we’ll focus on the following questions:, why should i learn cyber security?, let’s face it. we live in a digital world. our work lives, personal lives, and finances have all begun gravitating toward the world of the internet, mobile computing, and electronic media. unfortunately, this widespread phenomenon makes us more vulnerable than ever to malicious attacks, invasions of privacy, fraud, and other such frightening cases. this is why cyber security is such a vital part of a secure and well-ordered digital world. cybersecurity keeps us safe from hackers, cyber criminals, and other agents of fraud., but let me ask you a question,, how good is your knowledge about cyber security?, ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, " this course is very useful for learning the basics of cyber security. i was not familiar with the terms at first but after opting for learning something new i learned new terms. the instructors are very helpful and they make us understand the concepts in ease and the explanation provided by them is very quick to grasp. so thank you for sharing this amazing course." ~ student and security researcher, ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, here are some facts that would blow up your mind!, 1. according to varonis, worldwide spending on cyber security is forecasted to reach  $133.7 billion in 2022., 2. data breaches exposed 4.1 billion records in the first half of 2019., 3. symantec says, the top malicious email attachment types are .doc and .dot which makes up 37%, the next highest is .exe at 19.5%, these are not just facts but they are warnings! everyone who is accessing a device should be aware of their security and that is why we have designed this course. okay, here comes the next question., um, okay! but why should i enroll for this course?, the perfect answer to this question would be - have a look at our curriculum. cyber security - zero to hero is the first part of our cyber security specialization. in this course, we have covered from the basics of the computer to networking right up to advanced concepts such as cryptography, security auditing, incident management. yes, we have started right from the definition of a computer network. our course is broadly divided into seven sections. in the first section, we will cover the basics of networking. we will discuss the various protocols and their usage. we will talk about ip addresses and their classes and cover many important points in the field of cyber security., bonus material -we have also included interesting practicals !!, in the second section, we dive into cyber security. we discuss right from the history of cyber security to different trending terminologies. we have specially designed the curriculum to make sure even a novice student can understand the concepts. the course will help you develop critical thinking needed to pursue a career in cyber security. you will also get to know about organizations and resources which provide assistance and framework in this field. we recommend you to watch our introductory video where we have discussed the entire syllabus :) have a look at the few features of our course., 1. handpicked curriculum, specially designed for all levels of learners., 2. continuous assessment through challenging quizzes., 3. get your questions answered within 48 hours., 4. a variety of resources such as useful links, books, pdfs are also provided., 5. regular updates made to the curriculum., 6. different aspects of cybersecurity explored., 7. practicals with explanation included., 8. understand how cryptography works in real life., 9. real-life examples such as firewalls, antivirus, cyber-attacks are also discussed and much more., suggestions are always welcome :), who can enroll for this course?, this course is not intended for a specific group of people. anyone who wants to learn about cyber security can enroll for this course. if you already know a few concepts, you can always revisit the ideas and clear. we have covered statistics along with technical topics. in short, this is a perfect course for you if you want to kick start your career in cyber security!, bottom line -, once you move ahead in this course, you will get a clear idea about what cyber security is. we have assembled this course in a way that you will enjoy and learn along the way., , , , , , , , get access to our complete library of 5000+ courses or customize you bundle yourself., copyright 2022. all rights reserved., we make use of cookies to improve our user experience. by using this website, you agree with our cookies policy. agree learn more][cyber security : go from zero to hero, training 5 or more people ?, try our business solution, sample certificate]cyber security : go from zero to hero - tutorialspoint[what is cyber security?” the most common reply is - “um, hacking, also, the main focus of these courses is on hacking but it is not the only domain in cyber security. other major domains are incident response management, blue team, security audits, it security management, security laws and many more.,  i was doubting on this course as this was a new one. but getting started with the course gave me a good insight of cyber security and all my concepts were cleared about computer networking in the first section itself. no course based on cyber security includes networking but this course has covered the same so i preferred this course., why should i learn cyber security?, how good is your knowledge about cyber security, this course is very useful for learning the basics of cyber security. i was not familiar with the terms at first but after opting for learning something new i learned new terms. the instructors are very helpful and they make us understand the concepts in ease and the explanation provided by them is very quick to grasp. so thank you for sharing this amazing course., according to varonis, worldwide spending on cyber security is forecasted to reach  $133.7 billion in 2022., 2. data breaches exposed 4.1 billion records in the first half of 2019., 3. symantec says, the top malicious email attachment types are .doc and .dot which makes up 37%, the next highest is .exe at 19.5%, um, okay! but why should i enroll for this course?, the perfect answer to this question would be - have a look at our curriculum. cyber security - zero to hero, cyber security specialization., our course is broadly divided into seven sections, bonus material -we have also included interesting practicals !!,  handpicked curriculum, specially designed for all levels of learners., 2. continuous assessment through challenging quizzes., 3. get your questions answered within 48 hours., 4. a variety of resources such as useful links, books, pdfs are also provided., 5. regular updates made to the curriculum., 6. different aspects of cybersecurity explored., 7. practicals with explanation included., 8. understand how cryptography works in real life., 9. real-life examples such as firewalls, antivirus, cyber-attacks are also discussed and much more., who can enroll for this course?, anyone who wants to learn about cyber security can enroll for this course, once you move ahead in this course, you will get a clear idea about what cyber security is. we have assembled this course in a way that you will enjoy and learn along the way.][ courses,  ebooks,  prime packs,  business,  login,  sign up,  library,  courses,  ebooks,  prime packs, curriculum, overview, author details, feedback, what is computer networking - definition and characteristics 02:49 preview resources  main-content.pdf,  main-content.pdf, network topologies 06:09 preview resources  main-content.pdf,  main-content.pdf, history and applications of computer networking 05:51 preview resources  main-content.pdf,  main-content.pdf, protocols and standards 04:21, introduction to osi model 03:49, layers of osi model 07:23, introduction to tcp/ip model 09:50, osi model vs tcp/ip model 04:13, addressing in computer networks 08:30, ip address- ipv4 and ipv6 06:39, finding your own ip address 03:23, finding your own mac address 04:53, the internet protocol 06:30 preview resources  main-content.pdf,  main-content.pdf, finding target domain's ip address 03:06, address resolution protocol 08:47, dynamic host configuration protocol 07:48, internet control message protocol 06:16, routing protocols 05:32, how to use tracert command? 02:41, introduction to sockets 05:06, file transfer protocol 03:17, hyper text transfer protocol 04:17, hypertext transfer protocol over ssl 05:22, domain name system 03:05, become expert in computer networking, fundamentals of cybersecurity that will help students to dive in this field and different types of attacks and world famous cyber attack examples, entire networking related to cyber security and terminologies - threat, vulnerability, incident, management, attacks, exploits, events, careers and job opportunities in cyber security, roles in cybersecurity - ciso, cism, cisa, penetration tester, incident response teams, fundamentals of cryptography, learn about different cyber security organizations - nist, nsa, sans institute, owasp, cisco, a brief overview of malware and its types, overview of security audits and frameworks, self evaluation through quizzes, important - you should be enthusiastic to learn cyber security, be able to understand english, basic knowledge of computers, rest everything leave it to us, we will take you from novice to expert!, no feedbacks yet..!, submit your feedback rating ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ feedback (optional), about us, terms of use, cookies policy, faq's, teach with us, contact]