[here is the latest news, data, and expert insight on the covid-19 pandemic., the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) on thursday restricted the authorized use of the johnson & johnson covid-19 vaccine to adults for whom other covid-19 vaccines are not available or clinically appropriate, and to those who would otherwise not get vaccinated. the fda made the decision after research found that the j&j vaccine increased the risk of thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (a potentially life-threatening blood clot condition). the fda has identified 60 confirmed cases so far linked to the shot, including nine that were fatal. the fda recognized that this thrombosis risk is very rare and the known and potential benefits of the j&j vaccine still outweigh the risks that may come from receiving the shot., based on forecast models used by the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc), abc news expects daily hospital admissions and deaths related to covid-19 to increase over the next four weeks. about 5,000 deaths are anticipated over the next two weeks, with ohio, new york, and new jersey projected to see the largest daily totals in the upcoming weeks. anthony fauci, md, the nation's top infectious disease expert, said last week, “we are still in the middle of a pandemic, to be sure — there's no confusion about that.”, as forbes reported, secretary of state anthony blinken tested positive for covid-19 on wednesday, adding to a growing list of attendees from last weekend’s white house correspondents dinner who have contracted the virus. a statement from the department of state said that blinken is vaccinated and boosted against the virus and is experiencing only mild symptoms. the secretary has not seen president biden in person for several days, and the president is not considered a close contact according to guidelines by the cdc. several reporters and staffers from cnn, abc news, nbc news, cbs news, politico, and other participating news organizations have tested positive, including abc’s jon karl, who shook hands with president biden and who sat next to kim kardashian., an fda official wrote that there is no evidence of benefit at this time for a longer course of treatment of paxlovid (for example, 10 days rather than the 5 days recommended in the provider fact sheet for paxlovid). the statement added that repeating a treatment course of paxlovid in patients with recurrent covid-19 symptoms following completion of a treatment course also offers no benefit. as per fda authorization, john farley, md, mph, director of the office of infectious diseases, recommended the standard dosing of paxlovid antiviral pills (nirmatrelvir and ritonavir) as an effective treatment for adults and pediatric patients with mild-to-moderate covid-19 who are at high risk for progression to severe covid-19, including hospitalization or death. the comments from dr. farley contradicted pfizer ceo albert bourla, who said patients experiencing covid-19 symptoms after their first round of paxlovid could benefit from additional treatment, according to axios., in a company earnings call this week, pfizer ceo albert bourla said that the use of paxlovid has grown nearly tenfold in recent weeks. “paxlovid was was administered to more than 79,000 patients in the u.s. that weekend in april 27, up from approximately 8,000 patients for the weekend in february 25, 2022,” said bourla. the number of sites offering the covid-19 treatment has increased fourfold since late february, with 33,000 locations providing the medication., the associated press said that more than 100 people aboard a carnival cruise ship docked in seattle this week have tested positive for covid-19. many passengers have said they are quarantining in local hotels. carnival said that there have been no reports of serious health issues, but staff was overwhelmed by the sheer volume of individuals testing positive who needed to isolate., the capital of china, beijing, on wednesday shut more than 60 subway stations (about 15 percent of its network) and 158 bus routes, according to reuters. officials also said that schools, restaurants, gyms, and entertainment venues, along with some businesses and residential buildings, would remain closed beyond the country’s april 30 to may 4 labor day break. public health authorities have been recording dozens of new cases every day, but the city of 22 million is hoping mass testing will find and isolate the virus before it spreads further., new research published in the physics of fluids this week suggests that double masking with improperly fitted masks may not significantly improve mask efficiency and produces a false sense of security. scientists at florida state university and johns hopkins university observed that more layers create less porous face covering, leading to more flow forced out of sides, top, and bottom in masks with a less secure fit. also, double layers increase filtering efficiency only with good mask fit but may also lead to breathing difficulties., nearly 13 percent of patients hospitalized with the coronavirus had serious neurologic symptoms, according to an international investigation presented in the journal critical care explorations. in analysis of 16,225 hospitalized with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus infection, from 179 hospitals in 24 countries, researchers discovered that 1,656 (10.2 percent) had encephalopathy (any diffuse disease of the brain that alters brain function or structure) at admission, 331 (2 percent) had a stroke, 243 (1.5 percent) had a seizure, and 73 (0.5 percent) had meningitis or encephalitis at admission or during hospitalization. study authors noted that a history of stroke or neurologic disorder increased the odds of developing a neurologic manifestation. they also found neurologic manifestations differed by race, with black patients having a higher frequency of stroke, seizure, and encephalopathy than white patients., newly released estimates from the world health organization (who) show that the death toll associated directly or indirectly with the covid-19 pandemic between january 2020 and december 2021 was approximately 14.9 million. that is nearly 3 times more deaths than were officially reported. according to cnn, 5.4 million covid-19 deaths were reported to who during that time frame., “these sobering data not only point to the impact of the pandemic but also to the need for all countries to invest in more resilient health systems that can sustain essential health services during crises, including stronger health information systems,” said who director-general tedros adhanom ghebreyesus, phd. “who is committed to working with all countries to strengthen their health information systems to generate better data for better decisions and better outcomes.”, according to data compiled by nbc news, the united states surpassed one million covid-19 deaths on wednesday. america has the world’s highest death toll by a significant margin — brazil is a distant second with 660,000 deaths. although covid-19 fatalities have slowed in recent weeks, about 360 people have still been dying every day., in its weekly pandemic report on wednesday, the who said that for the week ending may 1, more than 3.8 million cases and over 15 000 deaths were recorded, decreases of 17 percent and 3 percent respectively, as compared with the previous week. despite the encouraging news, two regions — africa and the americas (north and south) — saw infections rise, by 31 percent and 13 percent. “these trends should be interpreted with caution as several countries have been progressively changing their covid-19 testing strategies, resulting in lower overall numbers of tests performed and consequently lower numbers of cases detected,” wrote the who., south africa notably experienced a whopping 67 percent jump in weekly cases. public health officials there attribute the rise in part to ba.4 and ba.5 subvariants, which could be fueling a fifth surge., with covid-19 infections continuing to trend upward, sara cody, md, the public health director and health officer for northern california’s most populous county, santa clara county, told the county board of supervisors on tuesday, “we’re now into our sixth wave. “it’s notable because it’s come relatively quickly after [the] resolution of the last surge. we didn’t get much of a lull before cases started rising again.”, in jama this week, officials with the fda said that it is time to accept that the presence of sars-cov-2 — the virus that causes covid-19 — is the new normal. “it will likely circulate globally for the foreseeable future, taking its place alongside other common respiratory viruses such as influenza,” wrote peter marks, md, janet woodcock, md, and robert califf, md. because covid-19 is not going away, these advisers believe the public has to be prepared to accept the idea of an annual covid-19 vaccination that may be administered alongside a seasonal flu shot., after finding two shots to be insufficient to protect children under 5 from the coronavirus, pfizer is testing three smaller doses on these younger kids. according to the associated press, the company presented a new timeline to release study results by late may or early june. pfizer had anticipated submitting data to regulators last month. at this time, only kids ages 5 and older can be vaccinated, using the pfizer shot. last week, moderna filed research details with the fda for its vaccination for children younger than 5. the federal agency expects to review all the data in june., a survey published wednesday by the kaiser family foundation revealed that about 1 in 5 parents who have children under age 5 (18 percent) are eager to get their child vaccinated right away, while a larger share (38 percent) say they plan to wait a while to see how the vaccine is working for others. about 4 in 10 parents of children under 5 are more reluctant to get their child vaccinated with 27 percent saying they will “definitely not” get their child vaccinated and 11 percent saying they will only do so if they are required. just over half of parents of children in this age range say they do not have enough information about the vaccines’ safety and effectiveness for children in this younger age bracket., the guardian reported that six individuals in shanghai are being investigated after an elderly nursing home resident was mistakenly declared dead, put in a body bag, and taken by coroners to a waiting van before mortuary workers noticed he was still alive. the city of 25 million has been under a strict lockdown for five weeks to contain the spread of the coronavirus. the mistake has sparked concerns that shanghai’s medical system is overwhelmed. in video of the incident, a worker says, “alive! did you see that? alive!” while another says, “do not cover him again!”, for the week ending april 28, more than 53,000 additional child covid-19 cases were reported, an increase of about 61 percent from two weeks ago, the american academy of pediatrics (aap) reported. this marks the third consecutive weekly increase in reported child cases. since the pandemic began, at least 13 million u.s. children have had covid-19, with five million of those infections occurring in 2022. “it is important to recognize there are immediate effects of the pandemic on children’s health, but importantly we need to identify and address the long-lasting impacts on the physical, mental, and social well-being of this generation of children and youth,” wrote the aap., according to us news, a subvariant of the omicron covid-19 variant called ba.2.12 is driving infections higher in america. the country is now averaging more than 56,000 new coronavirus cases each day. that is up from roughly 25,000 daily infections in early april. in a media briefing, rochelle walensky, md, mph, director of the cdc, said, “we are just starting to learn about the impact of ba 2.12.1. it appears it might have a transmission advantage of about 25 percent over the ba.2 subvariant. additional evaluation is currently underway to understand the impact of ba.2.12.1 on vaccine effectiveness. but importantly, we continue to believe that those who are vaccinated and especially those who are boosted continue to have strong protection against severe disease, even from ba.2.12.1.”, david peterman, md, ceo of primary health medical group, which includes 22 urgent care and family medicine clinics in southwestern idaho, told the associated press monday, “we have more people that are wanting to be tested that are symptomatic.”, nbc news reported that new york city surpassed an infection rate of 200 per 100,000 people in the five boroughs, raising its covid-19 alert level from low to medium on monday. the city did not impose any new restrictions based on the increasing number of infections, but if the alert level should rise to “high,” the city will consider bringing back its mask mandate for indoor settings., several reporters and staffers from cnn, abc news, nbc news, cbs news, politico, and other participating news organizations have tested positive for the coronavirus after attending the white house correspondents dinner this past weekend, according to cnn. as politico reported, among those testing positive was abc news’ chief washington correspondent jonathan karl, who sat next to kim kardashian and interacted with president joe biden., research published in jama this week found that more than 6,000 women who gave birth in canada during the pandemic were at higher risk for hospitalization and intensive care unit (icu) admission if they were infected with covid-19 compared with those of nonpregnant women of childbearing age, according to the center for infectious disease research and policy., a survey conducted by the covid-19 consortium for understanding the public’s policy preferences across states found that 40 percent of american adults say they know one or more people who have died of the coronavirus. the poll revealed that 13 percent knew two who died from covid-19, and 7 percent said they knew three or more who died from the virus., as the los angeles daily news reported on tuesday, los angeles county public health director barbara ferrer cautioned that the rapid spread of the virus is leading to more rapid emergence of new and potentially more dangerous variants. the average number of daily new covid-19 infections in los angeles county has jumped by about 200 percent over the past month., pfizer’s antiviral treatment paxlovid (nirmatrelvir and ritonavir) has been praised for being highly effective at keeping at-risk covid-19 patients from progressing to more severe illness. some patients, however, have reported that their symptoms return after taking the five-day treatment course. a number have also found that after feeling better and testing negative, they test positive a few days after finishing the medication. clifford lane, md, deputy director for clinical research at the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases, told bloomberg in an interview that studying this phenomenon is a “priority” for the national institutes of health. “it’s a pretty urgent thing for us to get a handle on,” he said., while paxlovid works at stopping severe sickness in high-risk patients who already have the virus, a new study found that the drug was not effective in preventing infection, according to the wall street journal. in a trial of 2,957 adults who were exposed to the virus by someone in their household, the risk of developing an infection declined by 32 percent in subjects who received paxlovid for five days compared with people who got a placebo, and declined 37 percent in people who received treatment for 10 days. pfizer said, however, that these results were not statistically significant., latest figures from the washington post’s covid tracker show that in the past week, infections in america rose 24 percent and hospitalizations climbed by 9 percent, but deaths fell by 12 percent. maine has experienced the biggest leap in cases — up 97 percent over seven days. although the virus is spreading among americans again, the cdc estimates that about 90 percent of u.s. counties have low covid-19 levels, although the associated press noted that half of vermont counties now have high levels., while deaths have been declining, the washington post has found that the vaccinated are making up a bigger share of covid-related fatalities. an analysis of cdc data indicates that the vaccinated made up 42 percent of fatalities in january and february during the highly contagious omicron surge, compared with 23 percent of the dead in september. public health authorities blame highly contagious strains that are able to elude vaccine protection, which wanes over time. also, two-thirds of those who died during the omicron surge were in the particularly vulnerable age group of those 75 and older. experts note that the numbers show the importance of getting boosters., the center for infectious disease research and policy shared details from a new study in nature communications suggesting that the moderna vaccine provides a slight edge over pfizer when it comes to protection against infection 90 days after the second dose. based on data from 3.5 million fully vaccinated americans, the vaccines did not differ, however, when it came to protection against hospitalization, icu admission, or death/transfer to hospice. “although this incremental risk is small at the individual level, it is meaningful at the population level,” the study authors wrote. “our results suggest that for every 1 million individuals vaccinated with the bnt162b [pfizer] vaccine compared with the mrna-1273 [moderna] vaccine, this would represent 3,448 additional care-seeking cases of covid-19 at 90 days.”, two new sublineages of the omicron variant taking hold in south africa seem to be able to elude antibodies from earlier infection, according to reuters. scientists have found, however, that the ba.4 and ba.5 sublineages are far less able to thrive in blood from people vaccinated against covid-19., in a tearful interview on talk uk, sharon osbourne revealed that her 73-year-old husband, ozzy, has been diagnosed with coronavirus. “i am very worried about ozzy right now,” she said. “we've gone two years without him catching covid and it's just ozzy's luck he would get it now.” the former lead singer with the band black sabbath lives with parkinson’s disease, a condition that makes it more difficult to recover from the virus., new york times data shows that covid-19 cases and hospitalizations are climbing in a majority of american states, in a widespread increase not seen since omicron dominated the country in january. hospitalization rates have inched up in more than 30 states and territories over the past two weeks. while eric s. toner, md, a senior scholar at the center for health security at the johns hopkins bloomberg school of public health, told the times that most cases have been mild, he also said of the pandemic, “it’s not over yet. it may be a mistake to relax all of our protective measures too quickly.”, based on data from the cdc, cbs news said on sunday that new york is currently a covid-19 hot spot, with 37 counties having high levels of community transmission. a subvariant of omicron called ba.2.12.1 appears to be the driving force behind the rising numbers., deborah birx, former covid-19 response coordinator under president donald trump, told cbs’s face the nation on sunday that based on patterns from the last two years, the southern united states may see a summer covid-19 surge, while the north may expect to be swept by the virus again starting at thanksgiving and continuing into the holidays of christmas, kwanzaa, and hanukkah. on a positive note, birx said, “we have the tools now to enable every american to not only survive, but thrive. but that means every american has to have access to these tools. and our rural counties, those red counties ... they lack adequate healthcare.”, also on face the nation, paul burton phd, chief medical officer at moderna, told viewers that the company has been testing a new booster candidate that should offer “superior” protection against covid-19. “we are confident that by the fall of this year, we should have large amounts of that new booster vaccine that will protect against omicron and other variants and really protect americans and people around the world as we go into fall of 2022,” said dr. burton., the fda on friday set a tentative timeline for its advisory committee to meet in june to discuss authorizing covid-19 vaccines for very young children, based on expectations that moderna and pfizer will complete their submissions for emergency use authorization (eua). “the agency understands the urgency to authorize a vaccine for age groups who are not currently eligible for vaccination and will work diligently to complete our evaluation of the data,” wrote the fda. “should any of the submissions be completed in a timely manner and the data support a clear path forward following our evaluation, the fda will act quickly.”, over the next 50 years, climate change could drive more than 15,000 new cases of mammals transmitting viruses to other mammals, according to a study published in nature last week. the research predicts that much of the new virus transmission will happen when more species interact as they move to cooler locales because of rising temperatures. the scientists forecast that animals will increasingly congregate in “areas of high human population density in asia and africa, driving the novel cross-species transmission of their viruses an estimated 4,000 times,” and this will increase the likelihood of emerging infectious diseases jumping from animals to humans., at a media briefing friday, south africa's health minister joe phaahla, mbbs, shared figures showing a 137 percent increase in new cases as of april 25 compared with seven days earlier. based on a technical definition of having 75 cases per 100,000 people daily, phaala said that south africa has entered a fifth wave. the dominant forms of the virus there are subvariants of omicron called b.4 and b.5. “our message again is that covid-19 remains a threat and we cannot afford to drop all prevention measures,” said dr. phaala., face coverings will still be required in italy on public transportation and in cinemas, theaters, indoor event locations, and hospitals until june 15, according to reuters. while infections had declined in the first weeks of april, the italian think tank gimbe said covid-19 cases have recently picked up again., moderna announced thursday that it has submitted a request for emergency use authorization (eua) for its covid-19 vaccine (mrna-1273) in children 6 months to under 6 years to the fda. the biotechnology company said that similar requests have been initiated with international regulatory authorities., “we believe mrna-1273 will be able to safely protect these children against sars-cov-2 [coronavirus], which is so important in our continued fight against covid-19 and will be especially welcomed by parents and caregivers,” said stéphane bancel, chief executive officer of moderna. in a statement., positive interim study results released on march 23 showed a robust neutralizing antibody response in this young age group after they received two 25-microgram doses of vaccine., the new york times learned from a top official at the company that moderna would finish submitting data to regulators by may 9. sources told politico that the fda may not green light the moderna shots for younger kids until pfizer also seeks authorization for a similar shot. officials argue that it would be less confusing to authorize and promote two vaccines to the public at the same time. waiting on pfizer, however, could mean a coronavirus vaccine for the nation’s youngest children would not be available until june., the biden administration this week said it is “sounding the alarm” for the urgent need for congress to provide funding for the nation’s covid-19 response. the white house underscored the severe consequences of their inaction: fewer vaccines, treatments, and tests for the american people, and fewer shots in arms around the world. with congress back in session after an easter break, president biden said, “i’m urging congress to act on my request for $22.5 billion in emergency resources so the american people can continue to protect themselves from covid-19.”, the san francisco bay area’s largest transit system — bay area rapid transit (bart) — revealed thursday that it is once again requiring that passengers wear face coverings at least through july 18. “covid cases are rising and we must keep riders safe, especially folks with health conditions, immunocompromised, and kids not yet eligible to get vaccinated,” tweeted bart board president rebecca saltzman., benido impouma, md, mph, director for communicable and noncommunicable diseases at the who africa office, tweeted on thursday that new covid-19 cases and deaths on the continent increased for the first time after a decline of more than two months for infections and one month for deaths. the who’s weekly pandemic report showed that infections in africa jumped by 32 percent for the week ending april 24, while deaths there soared by 110 percent., a preprint study in medrxiv noted that new omicron lineages ba.4 and ba.5 are contributing to the rise, and scientists are still determining if these new variants are more likely to elude vaccination., according to cnbc on thursday, denmark announced that it is halting its covid-19 vaccination program as of may 15, although everyone will be able to finish their course of vaccination. denmark is the first country in the world to end its immunization program, saying that the virus is currently under control. the danish health and medicines authority noted, however, that there will probably be a need to vaccinate against covid-19 again in the fall., as the associated press reported, taiwan, which recorded more than 11,000 new infections on thursday, is confronting the worst outbreak since the pandemic began. cases have been climbing since march. the taiwan government is asking citizens to quarantine at home if they test positive, unless they require treatment for severe symptoms., china’s capital city of beijing conducted three rounds of covid-19 testing this week, covering most of its 22 million residents, according to reuters. on thursday, the city closed schools, entertainment venues, and tourist sites. the city's overall count in the current outbreak has risen to 194, nearly half of which were detected in chaoyang, its most populous district known for its night life, malls, and embassies. while 194 infections is not a high number, china has relied on a “zero-tolerance” approach to the outbreak, turning to lockdowns and mass testing to eliminate community transmission., as reported by the new york times, the united nations children’s fund and the who issued warnings on wednesday that cases of measles have swelled by nearly 80 percent worldwide so far this year as some 23 million children missed out on basic childhood vaccines in 2020 due to issues related to the covid-19 outbreak., fauci, president biden’s chief medical adviser, told the washington post on wednesday that the united states is finally “out of the full-blown explosive pandemic phase” after more than two years battling the novel coronavirus. “we’re really in a transitional phase, from a deceleration of the numbers into hopefully a more controlled phase and endemicity [when disease spread and rates are predictable],” he told the post. fauci is hopeful that enough of the population has sufficient protection from previous infection or vaccination to prevent soaring rates of hospitalizations and deaths. he did, however, clarify his comments on npr, saying, “i probably should have said the acute component of the pandemic phase. and i understand how that can lead to some misinterpretation.”, reuters has seen a draft document indicating that the european commission is ready to say that europe has entered a new post-pandemic phase. the change comes as more than 70 percent of the european union population has been immunized and half have received a booster shot. with mass testing ended through out the continent, the commission suggests that “targeted diagnostic testing should be put in place,” focusing on people at risk of developing severe covid-19 and medical staff and others who are in regular contact with vulnerable populations. the draft document recommends establishing a surveillance system similar to that used to monitor seasonal flu., the new york times reported on wednesday that central new york has some of the highest levels of community transmission in the country, and that geographic hot spot appears to be growing daily. health authorities are warning cities in the region, including buffalo, rochester, syracuse, and binghamton, to take precautions. dri walensky, the cdc director, told reporters this week, “these are areas where the cdc recommends people should wear a mask in public indoor settings due to an increasing level of severe disease and the potential for significant healthcare strain.”, after confirming on tuesday that she had contracted covid-19, vice president kamala harris began taking pfizer’s antiviral medication paxlovid, according to a tweet from her press secretary kristen allen. physicians advised harris to take the treatment despite not having symptoms. the cdc says that adults age 50 and older — such as harris, who is 57 — are more likely to get severely ill with the virus. the biden administration this week initiated new plans to make paxlovid, which is considered to be a highly effective covid-19 treatment, more widely available at pharmacies., moderna said thursday that it had asked the fda to authorize its coronavirus vaccine for children under 6, as reported by the new york times. according to a source at the company, final data would be submitted to regulators by may 9., pfizer-biontech submitted an application to fda this week for emergency use authorization of a 10-microgram booster dose of its covid-19 vaccine for children 5 through 11 years old, according to a press release. the submission included lab data demonstrating that a third shot boosted omicron-fighting antibodies 36 times in this age group, and clinical trial analysis from 140 children finding that a third dose raised antibodies six-fold against the original virus strain. pfizer-biontech expect to share data from the ongoing study in children ages 6 months to 5 years later this quarter., as reported by the center for infectious disease research and policy, weekly figures from the who show that covid-related deaths have dropped to their lowest level since march 2020. who chief dr. tedros told reporters that deaths were just over 15,000, which was a “very welcome trend.”, as covid-19 numbers decline across the globe, so has covid-19 testing. on tuesday, who chief dr. tedros cautioned that cuts in testing could leave the world blind to a new surge and the development of potentially dangerous new mutations, according to the guardian. “as many countries reduce testing, who is receiving less and less information about transmission and sequencing,” he said. “this makes us increasingly blind to patterns of transmission and evolution. when it comes to a deadly virus, ignorance is not bliss.”, by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., cnn’s dr. gupta reflects on the past 2 years and what’s ahead., mask mandates are disappearing — fast. but is it it really safe to go mask-free? infectious disease expert carlos del rio, md, weighs in., if you’re age 50 or older or immunocompromised, you may now be eligible for a second covid-19 booster shot. but should you get one? here are some factors..., highly contagious ba.2 now makes up more than half of infections nationwide, but illness for most who test positive has not been severe., studies have found that covid-19 can cause erectile dysfunction and reduce male fertility in the months after infection., have we moved closer to the day when covid-19 transforms from a disruptive 'pandemic' crisis to a more manageable 'endemic' scenario?, two years into the pandemic, what's behind us and ahead?, scientists are calling for more research on why these abnormalities occur and whether they have any long-term impact., over-the-counter drugs such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and acetaminophen can work with or against the immune system to fight infection., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][coronavirus alert: fda restricts use of j&j vaccine, u.s. deaths expected to rise, and more, friday, may 6, 2022, 12:56 p.m. edt, fda limits j&j shot to certain individuals, hospitalizations and deaths in u.s. predicted to rise, secretary of state joins growing list of virus cases linked to correspondents dinner, 'no evidence' that taking more paxlovid helps, paxlovid use jumps tenfold since late february, more than 100 infected on cruise ship in seattle, beijing shuts dozens of subway stations to slow virus spread, double-masking may not help, study finds, 1 in 8 hospitalized covid-19 patients may have neurological problems, thursday, may 5, 2022, 11:44 a.m. edt, covid-19 death toll may be nearly 3 times originally thought: who, death toll in u.s. reaches 1 million, cases drop globally but climb in africa and americas, california may be in its sixth wave, annual covid-19 shot may be the new normal, pfizer targets end of may, early june to submit data on young kids vaccine, 1 in 5 parents ready to vaccinate their tots, shanghai man mistakenly thought to be dead, put in body bag, wednesday, may 4, 2022, 11:59 p.m. edt, covid-19 cases spike among kids, omicron subvariant contributes to rising u.s. cases, new york city raises covid-19 alert, many test positive after white house correspondents dinner, covid-19 presented higher risks for pregnant women, 40 percent of americans know someone who has died of covid-19, los angeles public health director warns of potentially more dangerous variants, tuesday, may 3, 2022, 2:21 p.m. edt, nih to explore why covid-19 symptoms may return after taking antiviral pills, paxlovid fails as a preventive therapy, weekly cases and hospitalizations rise, deaths increase among the vaccinated, when it comes to infections, moderna might have a small advantage, new omicron variants can dodge immunity from previous infection, ozzy osbourne has covid-19, monday, may 2, 2022, 12:56 p.m. edt, infections and hospitalizations are rising in nearly every part of the u.s., new york is a hot spot, south should ready for summer surge, former covid coordinator says, moderna expects to have new ‘superior’ booster by fall, fda looks to june to decide on vaccines for young children, climate change will likely fuel growth of new viruses, south africa faces fifth virus surge, italy keeps masks on transport and some indoor spots, friday, april 29, 2022, 2:12 p.m. edt, moderna seeks okay for younger kid vaccine, but fda may wait on pfizer, biden administration ‘sounds the alarm’ for more covid-19 funding, bay area transit brings back mask mandate, new subvariants drive fresh rise in cases and deaths in africa, denmark is first to stop its vaccination program, taiwan battles worst outbreak since pandemic start, beijing tests almost entire population; schools and other spaces shut, measles cases are surging because of pandemic disruptions, thursday, april 28, 2022, 11:56 a.m. edt, america is in ‘transitional phase’ of pandemic, dr. fauci says, european union is set to move out of emergency stage of outbreak, central new york is currently a hot spot for covid-19, vice president harris prescribed antiviral drug after testing positive, moderna seeks fda green light on vaccine for children under 6, pfizer applies for fda okay of booster dose for kids 5 to 11, covid-19 deaths worldwide are lowest since early in pandemic, who warns that decreased testing could make world more vulnerable, the latest in coronavirus, lessons from the pandemic: a discussion with sanjay gupta, md, should you still mask up on airplanes? or anywhere?, do you need a second covid-19 booster shot?, as the ba.2 omicron variant dominates in u.s. covid-19 cases, how concerned should we be, and what’s next?, covid-19 and sex: what men need to know, what it might take for covid-19 to become endemic, marking 2 years since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, what is covid-19 super immunity?, even mild covid-19 may change the brain, study finds, common medications may affect immune response to covid-19, coronavirus alert: december 15, 2021, coronavirus alert: december 11, 2021, coronavirus alert: december 20, 2021]coronavirus alert | everyday health[, fda limits j&j shot to certain individuals, hospitalizations and deaths in u.s. predicted to rise, secretary of state joins growing list of virus cases linked to correspondents dinner, 'no evidence' that taking more paxlovid helps, paxlovid use jumps tenfold since late february, more than 100 infected on cruise ship in seattle, beijing shuts dozens of subway stations to slow virus spread, double-masking may not help, study finds, 1 in 8 hospitalized covid-19 patients may have neurological problems, covid-19 death toll may be nearly 3 times originally thought: who, death toll in u.s. reaches 1 million, cases drop globally but climb in africa and americas, california may be in its sixth wave, annual covid-19 shot may be the new normal, pfizer targets end of may, early june to submit data on young kids vaccine, 1 in 5 parents ready to vaccinate their tots, shanghai man mistakenly thought to be dead, put in body bag, covid-19 cases spike among kids, omicron subvariant contributes to rising u.s. cases, new york city raises covid-19 alert, many test positive after white house correspondents dinner, covid-19 presented higher risks for pregnant women, 40 percent of americans know someone who has died of covid-19, los angeles public health director warns of potentially more dangerous variants, nih to explore why covid-19 symptoms may return after taking antiviral pills, paxlovid fails as a preventive therapy, weekly cases and hospitalizations rise, deaths increase among the vaccinated, when it comes to infections, moderna might have a small advantage, new omicron variants can dodge immunity from previous infection, ozzy osbourne has covid-19, infections and hospitalizations are rising in nearly every part of the u.s., new york is a hot spot, south should ready for summer surge, former covid coordinator says, moderna expects to have new ‘superior’ booster by fall, fda looks to june to decide on vaccines for young children, climate change will likely fuel growth of new viruses, south africa faces fifth virus surge, italy keeps masks on transport and some indoor spots, ., ,, , , , , , , ][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]