[if an archived page is not found, then nothing will appear, if it is found, then your user will see:, for instance, the internet archive has installed this on its 404 error handling page.    we had a page, before 2004, that is still referenced on the web.   now, instead of people getting a 404: file not found error, they get a page that includes a link to the page in the wayback machine.,  ,  , pingback: fixing broken links on the internet | internet archive blogs, pingback: internet archive announces some major new features to fix the broken link mess on the web, i tried the link you provided but immediately upon trying my virus checker warns me of suspicious activity., pingback: free “404: file not found” handler for webmasters to improve user experience | vyagers, pingback: » the cure for broken links and dead dot-coms - blog of the long now, pingback: la misión imposible de acabar con las ‘páginas no encontradas’ en internet | toknok españa, pingback: the internet archive releases a tool to link 404 pages to backups on wayback machine | frencom, pingback: links voor 4 november 2013 — michel vuijlsteke's weblog, it’s important that website owners don’t use this as an excuse not to handle moved pages properly. if a page has moved location, a 301 redirect should be set up so that old links continue to function transparently., hello,, i had a stroke in 2003 and lost my website, http://louis3004212.nstemp.net/. i am now trying to get all the stories i had written and the stories that are longer than 2 pages come up with the 404 message. are these lost forever? please help. i had someone build the website for me when i had started it and lost their contact info. i just want my stories back. thank you. kristine, @kristine i’m afraid they don’t appear to be in any public web archive, e.g. louis3004212.nstemp.net/stories/real/real_3.html. sorry., comments are closed.][internet archive blogs, a blog from the team at archive.org, free “404: file not found” handler for webmasters to improve user experience, the internet archive today is launching a free service to help webmasters improve their user experience by augmenting their website’s 404 page not found page to link to the wayback machine in the case that it has it.    therefore users trying to get to any pages that might have been on a previous version of your website will now be given the option to go to the wayback machine., to embed a link to the wayback machine on your site’s 404 pages, just include this line in your error page:, post navigation, 11 thoughts on “free “404: file not found” handler for webmasters to improve user experience”, recent posts, recent comments, categories, archives, meta]free "404: file not found" handler for webmasters to improve user experience - internet archive blogs[][blog, announcements, 25th anniversary, archive.org, about, events, developers, donate, pingback: fixing broken links on the internet | internet archive blogs, pingback: internet archive announces some major new features to fix the broken link mess on the web, cherie october 26, 2013 at 5:49 am i tried the link you provided but immediately upon trying my virus checker warns me of suspicious activity., pingback: free “404: file not found” handler for webmasters to improve user experience | vyagers, pingback: » the cure for broken links and dead dot-coms - blog of the long now, pingback: la misión imposible de acabar con las ‘páginas no encontradas’ en internet | toknok españa, pingback: the internet archive releases a tool to link 404 pages to backups on wayback machine | frencom, pingback: links voor 4 november 2013 — michel vuijlsteke's weblog, stephen morley december 18, 2013 at 9:18 am it’s important that website owners don’t use this as an excuse not to handle moved pages properly. if a page has moved location, a 301 redirect should be set up so that old links continue to function transparently., kristine january 6, 2014 at 11:58 pm hello, i had a stroke in 2003 and lost my website, http://louis3004212.nstemp.net/. i am now trying to get all the stories i had written and the stories that are longer than 2 pages come up with the 404 message. are these lost forever? please help. i had someone build the website for me when i had started it and lost their contact info. i just want my stories back. thank you. kristine, andrew jackson february 21, 2014 at 11:09 pm @kristine i’m afraid they don’t appear to be in any public web archive, e.g. louis3004212.nstemp.net/stories/real/real_3.html. sorry., new additions to the internet archive for april 2022, library as laboratory: new lightning talks announced, preserving wilmington history on the web, library as laboratory recap: analyzing biodiversity literature at scale, helping ukrainian scholars, one book at a time, brewster kahle on library as laboratory: new lightning talks announced, جوان موزیک on library as laboratory recap: opening television news for deep analysis and new forms of interactive search, تابان موزیک on what’s in your smart wallet? keeping your personal data personal, evolvous on library as laboratory recap: opening television news for deep analysis and new forms of interactive search, guilherme monteiro junior on what’s in your smart wallet? keeping your personal data personal, 78rpm, announcements, archive version 2, archive-it, audio archive, books archive, cool items, education archive, emulation, event, image archive, jobs, lending books, live music archive, movie archive, music, news, newsletter, open library, past event, software archive, technical, television archive, upcoming event, video archive, wayback machine – web archive, web & data services, log in, entries feed, comments feed, wordpress.org]