[built at the internet archive, show all collections, page - of -, the north carolina state government web site archives allows free and open access to north carolina state agency web sites dating back to 1996. access this collection using the link above or by visiting http://webarchives.ncdcr.gov., the arizona state agencies collection contains content from the websites of arizona state government agencies, boards, and commissions., the university of iowa archives regularly captures the web site of the iowa writers’ workshop, the nation’s premier creative writing program. it is one of over 250 ui-related sites preserved by archive-it., stanford university's social science resource group's collection on intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations that focus on the environmental policy of climate change and global warming., this collection is dedicated to preserving web-based information of importance to the global community of human rights researchers, students, policymakers and advocates., curated by the alaska state library is this rich collection of state and regional government agency websites., the flood of 2008 collection documents events following the largest natural disaster in the history of the university of iowa., highest ranked research university and second largest research and development organization in australia, this web collection of 41 affiliated centres range from statistical consulting to plant cell biology., the university of texas libraries’ human rights documentation initiative collection features fragile websites containing human rights documentation and related content from human rights organizations and advocates across the globe., a collection of web sites that document virginia's 2010 congressional elections (primary and general). all 11 members of virginia’s congressional delegation were up for election in 2010, and their campaign sites and related web presence are archived here., the collection's focus is documenting the evolution of the built environment and public spaces in and around new york city through the interaction of historic preservation efforts and new development projects within urban planning debates., this collection is currently documenting the events of the january 2010 earthquake in haiti and the aftermath, including the rescue efforts from around the world and the stories and circumstances of the haitian people. archive-it partners library of congress, bibliothèque nationale de france, virginia tech and ctrnet, and university of texas libraries have all contributed websites for this collection., this collection contains material created by the state of maryland related to state planning., the it history society has created this comprehensive archive of it websites which is a valuable resource for historians, archivists and the general public., the purpose of this collection is to provide documented information about whistleblowers and the act of whistleblowing in the united states and internationally, over time., this collection from the university of texas, san antonio contains sites related to the wide range of issues related to immigration, including the labor, educational, social, and political aspects., this collection from university of texas, san antonio contains websites and blogs addressing water issues in texas and throughout the rio grande/rio bravo watershed., a collection of websites, news coverage, and commentary surrounding the wikileaks releases starting in 2010. iincludes documents released from the afghan war diaries, iraq war logs, and the us state diplomatic cables., the clinical translational science award collection document and preserve the progress of the clinical translational science award websites., this collection, from fifth graders at new york city ps 56 in queens is their student's guide to the wonderful arts and varieties of cultures., a collection of websites, news coverage, and commentary surrounding the 2011 jasmine revolution in tunisia. our partners at library of congress and bibliothèque nationale de france have contributed websites for this collection., a collection of websites, news coverage, and commentary. includes the most recent events in libya, egypt and sudan. our partners at library of congress, bibliothèque nationale de france, the british library, and stanford university have contributed websites for this collection., the fulbright academy of science and technology promotes the work of 300,000+ alumni of the fulbright exchange program. the collection also has materials from agencies and organizations responsible for administering the grants, e.g. application information, newsletters and alumni profiles., this collection depicts the events after the earthquake and tsunami in japan in march 2011. our partners at virginia tech: crisis, tragedy, and recovery network, japan's national diet library, library of congress, and harvard's reischauer institute of japanese studies have contributed websites for this collection., a collection of 'born online’ literary magazines in german language. it is conducted by the innsbruck newspaper archive, university of innsbruck., a collection of homepages by german speaking authors conducted by the innsbruck newspaper archive, university of innsbruck., over 200 websites archived related to smithsonian museums, galleries, and programs., features the lifestyle and culture of mormons through self published blogs., this collection seeks to document conflict in ukraine as it progresses. content includes news outlets, social media, blogs, and government websites. sites are written in english, russian, ukrainian, and other languages., an archive of digital government and non-government organization (ngo) documents and reports, representing the greater everglades watershed and adjacent ecosystems, including areas north of lake okeechobee (the north everglades) and south of the peninsula, including florida bay, the florida keys, and the various adjacent national parks. material includes sound recordings, pamphlets, books, photos, art, curriculum material, government reports, theses and dissertations, scientific data sets, and more., show all organizations, page - of -, the niaid mission is to conduct and support basic and applied research to better understand, treat, and ultimately prevent infectious, immunologic, and allergic diseases. the institute has a unique mandate, which requires it to respond to emerging public health threats. niaid is a component of the national institutes of health., robert crown law library is the legal research center of stanford university., the university of toronto libraries is a network of 44 libraries with over 15 million holdings, forming the largest academic library in canada, and ranking third among research libraries in north america. with an average of 12,000 visits per day, and a rapidly expanding online information system, the collections meet the research, teaching and learning needs of scholars in an exceptionally broad range of disciplines. serving researchers in canada's largest university, across the country, and around the world, utl is an internationally recognized cultural resource., cal poly humboldt students enjoy an extraordinary college experience, taking small classes taught by professors who know them by name. they live and learn in one of the world's most beautiful places—near ancient redwood forests, mountains and beaches. we are located 275 miles north of san francisco in the town of arcata, which is recognized as one of the west's best college towns., the indiana state library uses archive-it to preserve copies of born-digital indiana state documents that are hosted on the websites of indiana state government departments and agencies., the university of hawai'i at mānoa is a land, sea and space grant institution and rated as a carnegie research universities institution. the library serves the mānoa campus as well as the other nine uh system campuses. it is a member of five asia-centered american academic consortia and the hawaiian collection is unequaled in the world -- collecting and preserving materials related to native hawaiian language, culture, and history. the archives and manuscripts collection includes the hawaii war records depository and hawaii congressional papers as well as the plantation archives formerly held by the hawaiian sugar planters' association and the japanese american veterans collection. the pacific collection is internationally recognized for the excellence of its holdings, which include materials relating to the island regions of melanesia, micronesia and polynesia., the seamen’s church institute cares for the personal, professional, and spiritual needs of mariners around the world. founded in 1834, it is the largest, most comprehensive mariners’ service agency in north america., the institute for alternative futures (iaf) has been a leader in the creation of preferred futures. since its founding in 1977 by clement bezold, alvin toffler and james dator, iaf has helped organizations monitor trends, explore future possibilities and create the futures they prefer by: providing techniques for organizational and social transformation that will instill vision and integrity; sharing insights gained from leading-edge futures research and a constantly expanding body of integrated knowledge; creating networks of relationships among leaders for more strategic, systemic, global and humane decision-making; and developing practices that sustain organizational success in the present while consciously investing in endeavors that expand opportunities for futures generations. this collection contains websites, forecasts, scenarios, toolkits, reports, and videos published by iaf in order to preserve and provide access for the future., the st. catharines public library’s mission is to provide spaces, resources and experiences for all citizens to learn, grow and connect. we envision a community enriched by life-long learning and connection, and are committed to creating a space that is welcoming, accessible and free of judgement., algoma university is an undergraduate public university with its main campus in sault ste. marie, ontario, canada. algoma is the smallest undergraduate-only university in ontario. with a particular focus on the needs of northern ontario, algoma u is a teaching-focused and student-centred post-secondary institution, specializing in liberal arts, sciences, and professional degree programs., managed by the university archives the algoma university web archives is focused on capturing university and university-affiliated websites and content which relates to the unique cultural and regional history of algoma and northern ontario., maryland thurgood marshall state law library, department of distinctive collections, massachusetts institute of technology libraries, this site includes collections that were archived by the university of rochester in 2008 and 2009., california state university, fullerton, the champaign county historical archives at the urbana free library maintains a research-level collection on the history and genealogy of champaign county and its residents., loyola university chicago, a private university founded in 1870 as st. ignatius college, is one of the nation’s largest jesuit, catholic universities and the only one located in chicago. loyola university chicago comprises four campuses: lake shore (lsc), water tower (wtc), health sciences (hsc), and the john felice rome center in italy, and is home to 11 schools and colleges: quinlan school of business, marcella niehoff school of nursing, stritch school of medicine, college of arts and sciences, school of communication, school of continuing and professional studies, school of education, school of law, school of social work, graduate school, and arrupe college of loyola university chicago. loyola also features course locations in beijing, china; saigon-ho chi minh city, vietnam; vernon hills, illinois (cuneo mansion and gardens); and a retreat and ecology campus in woodstock, illinois., university archives and records center, university of pennsylvania, established in 1962, the sterling and francine clark art institute library is one of the major art history reference libraries in the country. focusing on post-medieval art, the clark library’s collection is outstanding in italian and northern renaissance, baroque, and french nineteenth-century, history of photography, and contemporary art fields and is well balanced in other areas as well. the library’s resources include approximately 280,000 books, bound periodicals, auction sales catalogues, as well as a growing collection of digital assets. the library holds a collection of over 5,000 contemporary artists’ books, the julius s. held collection of rare books, the mary ann beinecke collection of decorative arts, the david a. hanson collection on the history of photomechanical reproduction, and the allan sekula library. of note is the library’s institutional archives and the sterling and francine clark papers which include diaries, correspondence, inventories of artwork, and personal papers of the institute’s founders., depauw university archives and special collections includes a variety of resources documenting the growth and development of depauw university and the united methodist church in indiana., the james & abigail kuaihelani campbell library, in supporting the mission of the university of hawaiʻi at west oʻahu, is committed to providing excellent, user-centered service in meeting the information needs of students, faculty and staff., the university of winnipeg archives is the steward of the records of the university of winnipeg and its founding colleges: manitoba college, wesley college, and united college. the records support the university's governance, administration, and strategic directions, and preserve its institutional memory and documentary heritage., the archives stewards records from individuals or organizations connected with the university, including its faculty, staff, administration, or alumni., the archives stewards records from individuals or organizations relevant to the university's strategic directions, research and teaching, or service mandate., the archives also provides stewardship for rare publications and special collections that support the teaching, research, and service mandates of the university and its stakeholder communities., for our web-archiving and take-down policy, please see our about page: https://archives.uwinnipeg.ca/our-collections/about-our-collections.html, victoria university of wellington is one of new zealand’s oldest and most prestigious tertiary institutions with a proud tradition of academic excellence. victoria university is new zealand’s globally ranked capital city university, and will be one of the great global-civic universities., the school district of philadelphia is the eighth largest school district in the nation, by enrollment. located in a historic and culturally rich setting, we are a racially and ethnically diverse community committed to education. we are students, parents, teachers, staff, and community members; we are the school district of philadelphia., these webpages were created by the government of salt lake county to assist them in their mission of providing public safety, health services, and cultural and recreation opportunities while also managing property, growth, and development issues. salt lake county is the most populous county in the state of utah, and is the location of the state capital, salt lake city., the pages selected and preserved contain information of long-term administrative or historical value. these pages are for research purposes only; information may be outdated. for the latest salt lake county government information please visit the live website at http://www.slco.org/., a brief history of the county: the mormon pioneers arrived in the salt lake valley in 1847 to establish a religious settlement, and the “state of deseret” government was created. the legislative assembly officially created great salt lake county on january 31, 1850. over 11,000 residents lived in the county at that time. the first formal meeting of salt lake county government occurred on march 15, 1852, eighteen months after the utah territory was established by the united states congress. probate judges and county selectmen functioned in what was known as the county court. the duties of the county court included both judicial and executive powers for the administration of county government. with statehood in 1896, a county commission was created. at this time, county government had a county auditor, assessor, attorney, clerk, recorder, sheriff, surveyor, and treasurer – the same independent offices that exist today. in 2000, a new mayor/council form of government was chosen by the voters to replace the county commission. today, county government serves over 1 million residents., founded in 1908 and named for the mother of our country’s founding father, the university of mary washington has built a rich history of traditions and academic excellence. the institution has evolved from its beginnings as fredericksburg’s state normal and industrial school for women to one of the nation’s premier, selective public liberal arts and sciences universities today. the university – located midway between richmond, va., and washington, d.c. – attracts intellectually curious undergraduate and graduate students in search of rigorous academics. the university's simpson library has partnered with archive-it to capture web content and social media created by umw affiliates, thereby preserving the historical record of the university., the collections captured by the commonwealth of massachusetts include the official website of mass.gov, electronic documents produced by state agencies, mass.gov official blogs, and the mass.gov twitter account page., the l. tom perry special collections web archive at brigham young university seeks to enhance scholarship and learning by documenting, providing access to, and preserving the state of mormonism in all of its variations, as they exist online. the mormon experience made manifest through culture, expression, history, philosophy, ideology, society, and theology is the main emphasis of this collection. secondary focus is given to areas of interest such as business, education, politics, activism, and philanthropy., the content on this site has been captured by the l. tom perry special collections web archive for personal study/research purposes only. by viewing the content of the archive you are agreeing to these terms of use. much of the content on this website is protected by copyright and permission from the respective copyright owners is needed for further use. your access privileges may be discontinued by varying from these terms of use. we appreciate hearing from anyone who may have additional information about any content in this archive. if you are an owner of content that has been harvested by the web archive and wish your material not be included in the web archive please contact the copyright licensing office, 801-422-9339, email: copyright@byu.edu, or visiting their webpage at: http://lib.byu.edu/sites/copyright/., union college, founded in 1795, is a private liberal arts college located in schenectady, new york in the united states., rungh is canadian not-for-profit society committed to conversations by and about ibpoc artists, creators and communities. canadian. since 1992., the los angeles public library provides free and easy access to information, ideas, books, and technology that enrich, educate, and empower every individual in our city's diverse communities. the digitization & special collections department strives to bring the history and unheard stories of los angeles to life by arranging, preserving, providing access to, stimulating appreciation for, and advancing knowledge of the rare and unique collections that support la's diverse communities., the national museum of women in the arts brings recognition to the achievements of women artists of all periods and nationalities by exhibiting, preserving, acquiring, and researching art by women and by teaching the public about their accomplishments., the kansas historical society preserves the state's history. established in 1875 as a state agency, the society collects, preserves and makes accessible their collections both on site and online reflecting the history of kansas and kansans. this curated collection on archive-it represents a record of public and private organizations, corporations, societies and political offices web presence since 2015., biblioteca nacional aruba is the national library of aruba, an island nation of about 110,000 inhabitants in the southern caribbean. see also: our <a href=https://bna.aw>website</a> and <a href=https://bna.aw/digital>digital collection platform</a>, montréalaise par ses racines, internationale par vocation, l’université de montréal compte parmi les grandes universités de recherche dans le monde. | deeply rooted in montreal and dedicated to its international mission, université de montréal is one of the world’s leading research universities., the center for the history of medicine in the francis a. countway library of medicine is one of the world's leading resources for the study of the history of health and medicine. our rare books, manuscript and archival collections, artifacts, and audiovisual materials attract a global audience of researchers.our mission is to enable the history of medicine and public health to inform healthcare, the health sciences, and the societies in which they are embedded. how to cite: [website title]. archived by the center for the history of medicine, francis a. countway library of medicine. [wayback page url] accessed [date]., founded in 1911, lmu is a top-ranked university rooted in the jesuit and marymount traditions. we are committed to fostering a diverse academic community rich in opportunity for intellectual engagement and real-world experience. we enroll an academically ambitious, multicultural, and socioeconomically diverse student body. we recruit, retain and support a diverse faculty committed to excellence in teaching, research, scholarship and creativity. our three campuses are rooted in the heart of los angeles, a global capital for arts and entertainment, innovation and technology, business and entrepreneurship., the guild of natural science illustrators is an association of individuals who communicate science visually and clarify scientific ideas. gnsi brings together these individuals and provides networking and professional development opportunities. here are archived the websites of gnsi annual conferences since 1999. to learn more about gnsi and future events visit www.gnsi.org., the university of utah, located in salt lake city in the foothills of the wasatch mountains, is the flagship institution of higher learning in utah. founded in 1850, it serves over 31,000 students from across the u.s. and the world. with over 72 major subjects at the undergraduate level and more than 90 major fields of study at the graduate level, including law and medicine, the university prepares students to live and compete in the global workplace. known for its proximity to seven world-class ski resorts within 40 minutes of campus, the u encourages an active, holistic lifestyle, innovation and collaborative thinking to engage students, faculty and business leaders., founded in 1886, winthrop university is a public, coeducational, comprehensive teaching university that teaches students to live, learn, and lead for a lifetime. the university enrolls an achievement-oriented, culturally diverse, and socially responsible student body of approximately 6,000 students. the students pursue one of 42 undergraduate or 26 graduate degree programs with more than 100 options and concentrations in arts and sciences, business administration, education, and visual and performing arts. all eligible academic degrees are nationally accredited - part of the university’s commitment to be among the very best institutions of its kind in the nation. approximately half of all students live on the beautiful, historic campus, only a short walk away from classrooms, the cafeteria, art galleries, library, and the digiorgio campus center. winthrop is located in rock hill, s.c., and within the major metropolitan area of charlotte, n.c., the tk‘emlúpsemc, ‘the people of the confluence’, now known as the tk’emlúps te secwe̓pemc are members of the interior-salish secwepemc (shuswap) speaking peoples of british columbia., the word kamloops is the english translation of the shuswap word tk’emlúps, meaning ‘where the rivers meet,’ and for centuries has been the home of the tk’emlupsemc, ‘people of the confluence.’, tk’emlúps has always occupied a place of great economic importance in our region. traversed by two major waterways, traditional tk’emlupsemc territory was the center of major traffic and trade routes. due to our community’s great economic and military strength, as well as our ancestor’s pivotal role in the creation of peace accords, the tk’emlupsemc were designated the secwepemc7uwi,‘ the real shuswap’., drs. nicholas and dorothy cummings center for the history of psychology, the edward p. taylor library & archives is a leading canadian centre for research in art., the south pasadena public library (sppl) was founded on september 10, 1895 and is governed by the city council-appointed board of trustees., the local history collection at sppl collects and preserves our community’s memory for current and future generations. the collection consists of a variety of materials relating to many aspects of south pasadena history., swissnex is the swiss global network connecting switzerland and the world in education, research and innovation. their mission is to support the outreach and active engagement of their partners in the international exchange of knowledge, ideas and talents. swissnex thereby contributes to strengthen switzerland's profile as a world-leading innovation hotspot. this collection includes the archived websites of swissnex in boston, brazil, china, india, new york, san francisco, and the global headquarters in switzerland. these website were archived in march 2021 when swissnex re-branded and launched their new websites that are now available at swissnex.org., founded in 1840, bridgewater state university is located in bridgewater, massachusetts and is host to over 10,000 students. this archive serves as a repository for web collections maintained by the university library., founded in 1977, the new museum is a leading destination for new art and new ideas. it is manhattan's only dedicated contemporary art museum and is respected internationally for the adventurousness and global scope of its curatorial program., http://archive.newmuseum.org, the school of information at kent state university offers four master's degrees: the mlis (accredited by the american library association), the ms in health informatics, the ms in knowledge management, and the ms in user experience design. this collection features work by students in the digital preservation and archives specializations of the mlis program., the nelson-atkins museum of art arose from the instincts and ambitions of two private individuals who shared the dream of providing a public art museum for kansas city and the surrounding region., william rockhill nelson, founder of the kansas city star, was convinced that for a city to be truly civilized, art and culture were necessities. when he died in 1915, the bulk of his estate was used to establish the william rockhill nelson trust for the purchase of works of art “which will contribute to the delectation and enjoyment of the public generally.” the nelson estate was combined with mary atkins’ legacy to build an art museum for the people of kansas city. the william rockhill nelson gallery of art and the mary atkins museum of fine arts opened to the public on dec. 11, 1933. today, the nelson-atkins maintains collections of more than 35,000 works of art and welcomes 500,000 visitors a year., we welcome and provide free admission to all, and deliver unparalleled opportunities to enjoy, appreciate and understand the finest visual arts and the varied cultures they represent—on our campus, online, and throughout kansas city., as an institution of national and international renown, we establish and adhere to the highest professional standards and practices in research, scholarship, presentation, interpretation and care of our collections., we serve as a vital partner in the educational, social and cultural life of our community, using our collections and programs to build an environment where people can gather, share and contemplate the greatest creations of humankind., every day, in all we do, the nelson-atkins is committed to nurturing excellence, inspiring creativity and building community through the power of art., the school of visual arts archives serves as the final repository for the historical records of school of visual arts. its primary purpose is to document the history of the school and to provide source material for administrators, faculty, students, alumni, and other members of the school community, as well as scholars, authors, and other interested persons who seek to evaluate the impact of the school’s activities on the history of american artistic, social, and cultural development. the sva archives is a division of the visual arts foundation., mount san antonio college (mt. sac). at mt. sac, students can get the full college experience without the full college debt. we give our students the support and excellent education they need to succeed in new careers, gain admission into top-tier universities, or advance in their current line of work. we have more than 200 degree and certificate programs, 25 support programs, and more than 50 student clubs and athletic programs., website of ecu's joyner library, founded in 1778, phillips academy is an independent, coeducational secondary school with an expansive worldview and a legacy of academic excellence. the phillips academy archives and special collections acts as the final repository for the administrative records of phillips academy, from its founding in 1778 to the present day. we collect materials that reflect campus and academic life at andover. through its web archiving program, the archives collects websites that complement its existing collections and services, with a particular emphasis on collecting sites by and about phillips academy for the archives., the region of waterloo archives is the official home of records created by the: county of waterloo (1829-1972); region of waterloo (1973-present); township of woolwich (1851-present); town of elmira (1886-1972)., the archives exists to acquire and preserve records of archival value, provide access to the records, and support the development of the archival community in the region., the american legion was founded in 1919 by world war i veterans to help meet the needs of veterans and their family in communities across the nation. this collection contains websites, videos and documents primarily created by the american legion national headquarters. the library and museum at the american legion is charged to collect, maintain, and make available the historical documents and artifacts relating to the american legion national organization., the f. m. johnson archives and special collections works to preserve the history and tell the story of north park university and the evangelical covenant church by serving as the official repository for their historically significant records. we also collect records documenting the swedish-american experience in the chicago area. our mission is to provide access to the collections, to ensure they remain available in the years to come, and to support the mission and vision of the institutions whose records we oversee., the south carolina department of archives and history is an independent state agency whose mission is to preserve and promote the documentary and cultural heritage of the palmetto state. as websites created by state agencies are public records, preserving them is also a part of that mission. state agencies utilize websites as their primary means of presenting and disseminating information to the public., grand valley state university (gvsu) is a comprehensive university in allendale, michigan. established in 1960, grand valley serves more than 25,000 students, and offers 126 degrees. though its main campus is in allendale, it has additional campuses in grand rapids and holland, michigan, and regional learning centers in detroit, muskegon, and traverse city. the special collections & university archives of grand valley state university serves gvsu's students, faculty, staff, and other community members by collecting, preserving, and sharing the university's history and heritage., welcoming all, the west hartford public library brings people, information and ideas together to enrich lives and strengthen our diverse community., all people in west hartford will have the opportunity to use the public library to empower themselves to reach their potential, to pursue life-long learning, and to access ideas and information freely in order to enrich the cultural, social and economic vitality of our town., the east baton rouge parish library is a community service organization that connects our citizens with information, resources, materials, technology, and experiences in order to make a positive difference in their lives., the national library of australia is the nation's primary collection of documentary resources relating to australia. it also has world-class collections on the asia pacific region. the library provides national networked services supporting resource discovery and delivery through the libraries australia service and participates in international library initiatives., the newport historical society is a multi-faceted history-based institution that has three general areas of activity. it retains and preserves significant collections of artifacts, documents and properties. it supports, generates and collates scholarship on the history of newport county and its place in american history. and, it develops and delivers a variety of educational programs — exhibits, tours, conferences, publications and other formats — to transmit information and open dialog with the public about history. as a small organization with significant holdings and a large mission, it is specifically a component of the nhs’ strategic plan to work as much with other organizations as possible to expand its reach. we are relentless collaborators., forsyth library is a university partner in delivering accessible quality education and developing engaged global citizens and leaders. with three levels, the library houses the writing center, the learning commons, the center for ethnic studies, the honors college, the tiger food exchange, and makerspace, as well as the various library departments and services. forsyth library is a vital part of fort hays state university, a leading, forward-thinking university of the midwest, with student enrollment of more than 15,500. dedicated faculty and professional staff support and guide degree and certificate programs for the associate’s, bachelor's, and master's programs, and for the doctorate of nursing practice, representing 31 departments within five academic colleges. fort hays state is located in hays, kansas, a vibrant, growing community of over 20,000 that takes great pride in the university's presence., the milton public library empowers the community to: read. learn. create. connect., the nih library is a biomedical research library whose collections and services are developed to support the programs of the national institutes of health and selected u.s. department of health and human services agencies., based on the number of volumes in its collections, cornell university library (cul) is one of the ten largest academic research libraries in the united states. within its 20 unit libraries, holdings number more than 8 million volumes and 7 million microforms. cul subscribes to nearly 65,000 journals and serial publications, and provides access to more than 100,000 networked databases and other electronic resources. cul collects web sites produced by affiliates of cornell university, web sites from organizations or individuals whose records or papers are held in cornell’s archives, and web sites in subject areas corresponding to existing collection strengths., the archives are the official, centralized repository of the congregation of the dominican sisters of hope (dsoh), ossining, ny and three former congregations: the dominican sisters of the most holy rosary, newburgh, ny; the dominican sisters of st. catherine of siena, fall river, ma; and the dominican sisters of the sick poor of the immaculate conception, ossining, ny. in 1995, each of the three former congregations voluntarily dissolved and joined together to found the new congregation of the dominican sisters of hope (dsoh). this collection contains websites, web-based publications, and documents created by the dominican sisters of hope., as the historical agency for maryland, the state archives is the repository for records of permanent value. today, the internet is the face of government. through this partnership we hope to capture and make accessible important state and local government laws, publications and information., the james blackstone memorial library provides essential access to information, resources and unique shared experiences to help ensure branford is an educated and enriched community., the utah state archives, established in 1917, assists utah government agencies in the efficient management of their records, preserves those records of enduring value, provides quality access to public information., the utah state library managed this collection of permanent born-digital state publications and state government web sites until 2017., harvard law school library's historical & special collections collects, preserves, and makes available research materials for the study of legal history. primary collecting areas include manuscript collections and publications from harvard law school faculty, student organizations, and alumni; and rare books and visual art related to legal history across the world. historical & special collections holds over 3,000 linear feet of manuscript collections (including audiovisual and born-digital material), over 3,000 rare books, and more than 70,000 visual images and art that date from the 12th century to today. hsc's web archiving initiatives are currently focused on collecting sites that complement existing or expected manuscript acquisitions. if you would like to nominate a url for inclusion in hsc's archive, contact specialc@law.harvard.edu., the mission of the presbyterian church in canada archives is to ensure that the documentary evidence of the life and work of the church is preserved and accessible for use by church officials and interested historians, researchers, and community members. the archives' holdings date primarily from the early 1800s to the present, and consist of textual records, photographs, audio-visual recordings, architectural plans, and microfilm. the vast majority of this material is unique and irreplaceable, and therefore exceptionally valuable. these records were created by community members and church workers in the normal course of business and therefore act as evidence of that business: documenting the decisions, actions, events, responsibilities, assets, property and activities of the presbyterian church in canada., the publications office of the european union (publications office), based in luxembourg, is an interinstitutional office whose task is to publish the publications of the institutions of the european union. its core activities include production and dissemination of legal and general publications in a variety of paper and electronic formats, managing a range of websites providing eu citizens, governments and businesses with digital access to official information and data from the eu and ensuring long-term preservation of content produced by eu institutions and bodies., university libraries is the largest research library collection in the state of oklahoma and contains more than 4.9 million volumes and more than 63,000 print and electronic periodical subscriptions. university libraries includes several distinguished special collections such as the harry w. bass collection in business history, the history of science collections, the western history collections, and the john and mary nichols rare book and special collections in english literature., the temple university archives, located within the libraries' special collections research center, is the principal repository for and steward of university records. we collect, preserve, and make these records accessible to stimulate, enrich, and support research, teaching, learning, and administration at temple university. scrc makes these resources available to the temple community and to a broad constituency as part of the university's engagement with the larger community of scholars and independent researchers. these archive-it collections capture the on-line presence of temple university. complete information about the archives is available at http://www.library.temple.edu/scrc., the reed college library provides collections, staff, services and physical spaces that meet the study, teaching and research needs of reed students, faculty and staff, and promotes the effective use of these resources. the mission of reed college special collections and archives is to collect, describe, preserve, and make available enduring records of the college and college community, as well as primary source materials with enduring historical value for the study, teaching and research needs of reed students, faculty and staff., the kansas city public library system consists of a central library, nine physical branches, a digital branch, and an outreach services program serving a constituency of over 250,000 in kansas city, missouri. in addition to providing library services to residents, the library also serves as a resource for the 1.7 million metropolitan residents of greater kansas city., the dundas county archives is the record repository of the township of north dundas and the municipality of south dundas. its mission is to acquire, preserve and make available the documentary heritage of the county as the permanent corporate record of the region. as a county archive there is also a mandate to collect records of local businesses, groups, and individuals of the region. with a unique history of the st lawrence seaway and the re-location of homes in the region, this is also a special emphasis., the molloy college archives & records center’s web resource collection preserves and provides appropriate access to records of enduring value relating to the college. this collection captures web content produced by students, faculty, departments and offices that reflect campus and academic life at molloy., the university of victoria libraries web archiving service from the internet archive helps the libraries to harvest, build, and preserve collections of digital content relevant to our community., the technical centre for agricultural and rural cooperation (cta) is an international nonprofit organisation established under a joint agreement between the africa, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of countries and the european union. cta’s mission is to advance food security, increase prosperity and encourage sound natural resource management by providing access to information and knowledge, facilitating policy dialogue and strengthening the capacity of agricultural and rural institutions and communities in acp countries. our work currently focuses on three key areas: * strengthening agricultural and rural development policy processes and strategies; * improving agricultural value chains, especially for small-scale producters; * enhancing information, communication and knowledge management capacities for rural development., web archives created for and at the 14th international conference on the arts in society, june 19-21, 2019, in lisbon, portugal., established in 1965, hampshire college is a four-year liberal arts college of 1,400 students located in amherst, massachusetts. the hampshire college archives and special collections collects, preserves, and provides access to materials documenting the history of the college. through its web archiving program, archives and special collections selectively captures web content produced by or about hampshire, its students, faculty, staff, and alumni., mount holyoke college archives and special collections (asc) documents, preserves and shares the stories of the mount holyoke community — its people and its physical places — from the school’s founding in 1837 to the present day. through its web archiving program, asc selectively captures web content produced by or about the mount holyoke community., queen's university at kingston is a public research university located in kingston, ontario, canada. founded on 16 october 1841 via a royal charter issued by queen victoria, the university predates the founding of canada by 26 years. queen's is a mid-sized university with ten undergraduate, graduate and professional faculties and schools, as well as the bader international study centre located in herstmonceux, east sussex, united kingdom., founded more than a century ago and located in saratoga springs, new york, on a beautiful 950-acre campus, skidmore is a highly regarded liberal arts college known for its creative approaches to just about everything. the college's core belief: creative thought matters., collections created by the staff of the martha blakeney hodges special collections and university archives at the university of north carolina at greensboro., welcome to the archive-it page for lab 3 of lis 5970! this course provides an introduction to the curation of born-digital collections and the technical requirements for their storage, preservation, and dissemination., marjorie merriweather post bought hillwood in 1955 and soon decided her home would be a museum that would inspire and educate the public. her northwest washington, d.c. estate, opened as a public institution in 1977, endowed the country with the most comprehensive collection of russian imperial art outside of russia, a distinguished 18th-century french decorative art collection, and twenty-five acres of serene landscaped gardens and natural woodlands for all to enjoy., friends of silverbrook cemetery restores and promotes the historic municipal cemetery in niles, michigan., the bentley historical library was established in 1935 by the university of michigan regents to carry out two functions: to serve as the official archives of the university and to document the history of the state of michigan and the activities of its people, organizations and voluntary associations. the materials in the bentley historical library web archives reflect the mission and priorities of the library as we seek to preserve online resources of unique, essential, and enduring value., lycoming college was founded in 1812, making it one of the 50 oldest colleges in america. located in williamsport, pennsylvania, lycoming enjoys its status as a national liberal arts and science college with an enrollment of 1400 students. the purpose of the lycoming college archives is to collect inactive materials that reflect upon our heritage through the history, development, and administration of lycoming college, and to strengthen the educational mission of the college by preserving and making available for research various materials of a unique nature that relate to the history of the institution. this web collection is focused on the lycoming.edu domain and college affiliated websites that are integral to the preservation of lycoming college’s historical record., the web archives are administered by historical collections & archives (hc&a), the home of ohsu's collections of rare books, archives, manuscripts, and artifacts. serving the ohsu community and the general public, hc&a supports education and research using these unique collections and provides a full range of public services to support access to the collections. hc&a promotes diverse and engaging perspectives on the history of health sciences through exhibits, events, and the ohsu oral history program.,  the church of jesus christ of latter-day saints church history department’s traditional functions of acquiring, cataloging, preserving, and sharing materials include web content, such as web sites, blogs, social media, etc. the world wide web (internet) is temporary by nature and web content can change, move, or disappear without notice. for this reason the lds church history department maintains “the church of jesus christ of latter-day saints web archive collection” (lds web archive collection) to preserve, not only official lds church produced web-published content, but, also selected web-published content whose owner grants permission for inclusion in the lds web archive collection.  the lds web archive collection includes selected web content of enduring historical, cultural, and social value for present and future generations of members of the church of jesus christ of latter-day saints (mormons), as well as scholars, and researchers. the lds web archive captures, preserves, and make accessible lds church produced information published on the web. the web archive includes videos, tweets, and websites dating from 1996 to present. the internet archive’s archive-it software is used to capture selected content.  some types of web content are difficult to capture and archive. they are: • urls that contain a # • javascript • post requests • streaming and downloadable media • password protected sites • dynamic content • form and database driven content • robots.txt exclusions • sites protected by a "captcha"-style login process.  printing should be done from the live web site and not from the church of jesus christ of latter-day saints web archive collection., the internet archive is presenting searchable online libraries of the philadelphia-region’s political advertising, television news, and a wide range of related web and social media content leading up to the 2014 election. we are collaborating with a variety of scholars, journalists and civic organizations to facilitate their assessment of how local media are meeting the information needs of their communities and the influence of political spending on the media ecosystem., the sisters of charity federation of north america [the federation] is a voluntary membership association of 12 congregations of women religious that number over 2,700 sisters. impelled by christ’s love and joined together in the mission of charity, we, the sisters of charity federation, respond to the cries of people living in poverty and on the margins. our mission in the church continues the original values of saint vincent de paul, saint louise de marillac and saint elizabeth ann seton. the sisters and daughters of charity serve throughout the united states, canada and in 27 other countries in various capacities: education and administration, social services, health care, senior housing and care for the aged, pastoral care, youth services, human services and homeless shelters, advocacy, community centers, nonprofits, inner-city ministries and many more. members communities of the sisters of charity federation include: * daughters of charity province of los altos hills * daughters of charity province of st. louise * les religieuses de notre-dame-du-sacre-coeur * sisters of charity of cincinnati * sisters of charity-halifax * sisters of charity of the immaculate conception * sisters of charity of leavenworth * sisters of charity of nazareth * sisters of charity of new york * sisters of charity of our lady of mercy * sisters of charity of st. elizabeth * sisters of charity of seton hill * sisters of st. martha, nacs, the association for convenience stores, the duke university medical center archives (dumca) actively collects the official records of the duke university medical center (dumc) and duke university health system (duhs) departments and divisions, including a variety of materials that provide evidence of business, interests, and activities through the years. the the world wide web is home to many institutional and organizational records related to those collecting efforts. the dumca's archive-it collections insure that these important digital resources are preserved and continue to be available to the public., the museum of contemporary art of georgia's (moca ga) mission is to collect and archive significant, contemporary works by the artists of the state of georgia. to place our artists in a global context, the museum’s exhibitions include georgia artists and artists from around the world. our programs promote the visual arts by creating a forum for active interchange between artists and the community. for a history of the development of the moca ga website, see all captures since 2001 on the wayback machine: https://web.archive.org/web/*/mocaga.org, the queens public library serves 2.3 million people from 62 locations plus seven adult learning centers and two family literacy centers. it circulates among the highest numbers of books and other library materials in the country., the marshall-lyon county library is comprised of three libraries in southwestern minnesota. we have locations in marshall, balaton, and cottonwood, minnesota. we are also part of the plum creek regional library system, a federated regional public library system spanning 9 swmn counties, which participates in the minnesota reciprocal borrowing compact. mlcl collaborates with the minneota public library and the tracy public library to provide library services and share resources throughout lyon county, mn., the american college of surgeons (acs) is a scientific and educational association of surgeons that was founded in 1913 to improve the quality of care for the surgical patient by setting high standards for surgical education and practice., the mission of the benedictine sisters of chicago archives is to appraise, collect, organize, describe, make available, and preserve information about our monastic community life for the purpose of knowing who we are, telling our story, teaching community history to new members, and assisting in ongoing monastic formation. we hope that use of these materials brings scholars to greater reverence for god at work in their hearts and in our world., the kentucky department for libraries and archives (kdla) mission is to support and promote access to library services and to ensure that documentation of government activities is created, preserved, and made available for public use. the kdla electronic records archives (e-archives) manages and provides access to digital records from kentucky state government. the e-archives website archives is an expansion of kdla’s digital archives. it contains snapshots of websites from all three branches of government of the commonwealth of kentucky. the website archive focuses on executive branch constitutional officers, the legislative research commission (legislative branch) and the kentucky court of justice (judicial branch)., the oxford county archives acquires, preserves, and makes accessible inactive public records created by, for, and about oxford county. these records include administrative, legal, fiscal, genealogical, and historical and cultural records of oxford county 1850 to the present, and its predecessor, the district of brock, 1842 to 1849. our holdings also contain community-based records from local community organizations, schools, churches, businesses, clubs, personal collections, and more., the mike kelley foundation for the arts advances the artist’s spirit of critical thinking, risk taking, and provocation in the arts. established by kelley in 2007, the foundation seeks to further kelley’s philanthropic work through grants to arts organizations and artists for innovative projects that reflect his multifaceted artistic practice., the foundation also preserves the artist’s legacy more broadly and advances the understanding of his life and creative achievements through educational initiatives including exhibitions, educational events, publications and the preservation and care of the foundation’s art collections and archives., the expatriate archive centre collects and preserves the life stories of expatriates worldwide for future research. we are a unique, non-profit, independent archive based in the netherlands, with global outreach., charleston high school is located in rural east central illinois and is home to 900 students and faculty. students with various backgrounds from the chs classes of 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 were invited to take part in this archiving project to show the diversity of interests, talents and values within the school's community., the pollard memorial library is collecting digital representations of lowell history to capture the historical, cultural, artistic and every day life components of residents of the city in the 21st century. you can learn more about our collections at https://www.lowelllibrary.org. if you have a suggestion for a webpage, blog or social media site to capture, please email bcooley@lowelllibrary.org. thank you!, the canadian centre for architecture is an international research institution operating from the fundamental premise that architecture is a public concern. it was founded in 1979 by phyllis lambert as a new type of cultural institution, with the specific aim of increasing public awareness of the role of architecture in contemporary society and promoting research in the field., we produce exhibitions, publications, and a range of activities driven by a curiosity about how architecture shapes—and might reshape—contemporary life. we invite architects, scholars, and the wider public to engage with our collection, deepening our understanding of the past and giving new relevance to architectural thinking in light of current disciplinary and cultural issues., lawrence public library (lpl for short) is a community learning hub that believes in sharing knowledge and resources. we empower our community to imagine more together to grow a world we can all believe in by learning, connecting, creating, and growing with a passionate staff and vast collections, resources, services, and programs., web archiving at bowdoin college is administered by bowdoin library’s george j. mitchell department of special collections & archives (sc&a). in accordance with its charge to preserve college records of enduring value, sc&a seeks to archive web content created by the bowdoin administration and the bowdoin community to document college history., the primary focus of bowdoin’s web archiving effort is the official college website (bowdoin.edu), including its subpages (e.g. bowdoin.edu/academics) and subdomains (e.g. library.bowdoin.edu). the capture of official bowdoin content also includes bowdoin-managed social media accounts. other non-official web content created independently by members of the bowdoin community, primarily students and student organizations, is also archived (e.g. the website of the bowdoin orient)., further description and contextualization of our web archives is made available through collection guides on our website (library.bowdoin.edu/arch), where you can also find our web archives collecting statement; web archive nomination form; and recognition of bias and potential harm., laramie county library system’s mission is to serve the people of laramie county by encouraging and supporting lifelong learning and adventure. with branches in cheyenne, pine bluffs, and burns, and a bookmobile for the most rural communities, laramie county library system is continually expanding access to free resources, materials, services, events and more in order to provide opportunities that empower everyone to reach their full potential., three of the finest liberal arts schools in the country, swarthmore college, bryn mawr college, and haverford college offer their students a passionate learning community that prepares them for full, balanced lives and effective citizenship through rigorous academic study coupled with an emphasis on social responsibility., university of wisconsin-eau claire, the international internet preservation consortium (iipc) is a membership organization dedicated to improving the tools, standards and best practices of web archiving while promoting international collaboration and the broad access and use of web archives for research and cultural heritage. the content development group leads the iipc's collaborative collection projects., a catholic university in the benedictine tradition, founded in 1887. bendictine university has campuses in lisle and springfield, illinois and mesa, arizona., the union of concerned scientists is the leading science-based nonprofit working for a healthy environment and a safer world., the national library of ireland is actively creating an irish web archive. the nli recognises the intrinsic cultural value of information published on the web and the need to preserve this material for current and future generations. it is also an opportunity to work with born-digital collections and to enable users to work with the nli collections, in new and innovative ways. the nli has archived the irish web on a selective basis since 2011. you can search and access these websites from here. please note that websites archived before september 2018 are not displayed as collections. they currently can be viewed here in the collection national library of ireland collections 2011-2018. more information on these collections here: https://www.nli.ie/en/udlist/web-archive-collections.aspx., the university of san diego, founded in 1949, is a roman catholic institution located in san diego, california. the mission of usd is a commitment to advancing academic excellence, expanding liberal and professional knowledge, creating a diverse and inclusive community, and preparing leaders dedicated to ethical conduct and compassionate service. usd’s copley library is a nationally preeminent catholic university library dedicated to advancing knowledge creation in a global environment. as part of copley library, the archives, special collections, and digital initiatives department serves the university of san diego by preserving institutional history, supporting university scholarship through digital publishing, digitizing unique content, creating accessible and sustainable digital collections, and by developing and providing access to its special collections of rare print material. the web archiving program for the university of san diego contributes to these endeavors by preserving valuable web content associated with the university., government, media, and other sites of interest related to cleveland., the minnesota historical society is a non-profit educational and cultural institution established in 1849. the minnesota historical society uses archive-it to capture and preserve minnesota news and journalism on the web for future generations. this project was funded in fy10, fy11, and fy12 by a grant from the minnesota arts and cultural heritage fund., the university of adelaide is a public university located in adelaide, south australia, with a diverse student body of over 27,000 from more than 90 countries. established in 1874, it is the third-oldest university in australia and a member of australia’s prestigious group of eight research-intensive universities. the university of adelaide archives preserves the recorded memory of the university. for information about the archives collection visit https://archives.adelaide.edu.au/., hennepin county library serves minneapolis and hennepin county, minnesota. special collections, located at minneapolis central library, houses several in-depth collections containing unique and historic materials on a variety of topics, including the minneapolis and hennepin county collection of local history., the environmental studies program at lewis & clark college in portland, oregon usa cultivates digital scholarship skills among its undergraduate students. this collection features student work on selected digital scholarship websites spanning 2011 through 2020., the material in the university of minnesota web archives document and preserve valuable online resources that complement existing collections and services in the university digital conservancy and the university of minnesota archives. web archive collections include selected websites for academic programs and administrative offices, such as university colleges, departments, and centers; organizations and associations; committees; campus-related activities; and historically significant events. it also includes content from the uthink blog platform. captures of websites are ongoing unless the website ceases updating or has been moved to a new web address., for more information about this service, please contact https://conservancy.umn.edu/contact., the special collections research center is the principal repository for and steward of the libraries’ rare books, manuscripts, archives, and university records. we collect, preserve, and make accessible primary resources and rare or unique materials, to stimulate, enrich, and support research, teaching, learning, and administration at temple university. scrc makes these resources available to a broad constituency as part of the university's engagement with the larger community of scholars and independent researchers. many of the scrc’s collections documenting the philadelphia region’s history are found in our philadelphia dance collection, philadelphia jewish archives, and urban archives. these archive-it collections capture the on-line presence of some of the organizations whose archives are preserved by the scrc. complete information about the archives is available at http://www.library.temple.edu/scrc ., elgin county archives acquires & manages corporate records of the county of elgin & private records of enduring importance to elgin county’s history., western michigan university is a national research university enrolling nearly 24,000 students from across the united states and 100 other countries. founded in 1903, it is a learner-centered, discovery-driven and globally engaged public university that stands out among america's more than 4,600 higher education institutions. this web archives represents the web presence of the university website and related sites., the boston college law school web archive aims to preserve a historical record of the institution's online presence. beginning in the fall of 2018, digital resources such as institutional websites, social media accounts, videos, and course offerings have been captured and made available on this platform., edgewood college, oscar rennebohm library, ed's mission is to promote student achievement and preparation for global competitiveness by fostering educational excellence and ensuring equal access. ed was created in 1980 by combining offices from several federal agencies. ed's 4,400 employees and $68 billion budget are dedicated to: establishing policies on federal financial aid for education, and distributing as well as monitoring those funds, collecting data on america's schools and disseminating research, focusing national attention on key educational issues, and prohibiting discrimination and ensuring equal access to education., university of new mexico, college of information studies, university of maryland, the british columbia institute of technology (bcit) is one of british columbia's largest post-secondary institutions with more than 48,000 students enrolled annually (16,600 full-time, 31,600 part-time). we offer practical career credentials designed for the workplace, including degrees, diplomas and certificates spanning applied and natural sciences, business and media, computing and information technology, engineering, health sciences and trades., established in 1964, bcit now has five main campuses as well as satellite locations province-wide., at bcit, students learn theory and put it into practice all in one process. we work with industry to ensure that our training remains on the cutting edge of current practices, and engage our students in the classroom, in the lab, and in the field, building a broad and relevant spectrum of skills. when our students graduate, they're ready to jump in and contribute—right from day one., the bcit archives contains the official and unofficial administration, faculty and student created materials, documenting the history of bcit and its role in local and provincial history., flagler college is a four year, independent, non-sectarian institution offering programs leading to the baccalaureate degree. the college, located in st. augustine, florida, is coeducational and residential with an enrollment of approximately 2,500 students. archive-it is being used to capture and preserve the content of the college's website, including the college's online newspaper and similar content of historical value., founded in 1791, the massachusetts historical society is an independent research library and an invaluable resource for american history, life, and culture. its extraordinary collections tell the story of america through millions of rare and unique documents, artifacts, and irreplaceable national treasures., the carnegie institution of washington (now also known as the carnegie institution for science) is an independent, nonprofit organization for scientific research. the institution was founded by andrew carnegie in 1902 and operates six research departments across the united states. it is headquartered in washington, dc. carnegie scientists undertake research in earth and planetary sciences, matter at extreme states, astronomy, plant biology, genetics and developmental biology, and global ecology., the wyoming state archives ensures that all citizens have ready access to the documentary resources reflecting history and governmental functions., the ivy plus libraries confederation (iplc) web collecting program is a collaborative collection development effort to build curated, thematic collections of freely available, but at-risk, web content in order to support research at participating libraries and beyond. participating libraries are: brown university, the university of chicago, columbia university, cornell university, dartmouth college, duke university, harvard university, johns hopkins university, massachusetts institute of technology, the university of pennsylvania, princeton university, stanford university, and yale university., the department of health and human services (hhs) is the united states government’s principal agency for protecting the health of all americans and providing essential human services, especially for those who are least able to help themselves., macewan university library is committed to the preservation of web content. our current focus is in accordance with the acquisition strategy of the macewan university archives, which is to capture macewan university website content with enduring value., howell carnegie district library serves the area around howell, mi. we also have the howell area archives which contains historical information for livingston county., we are a group of cultural heritage professionals – librarians, archivists, researchers, programmers – working together to identify and archive at-risk sites, digital content, and data in ukrainian cultural heritage institutions while the country is under attack. we are using a combination of technologies to crawl and archive sites and content, including the internet archive’s wayback machine, the browsertrix crawler and the archiveweb.page browser extension and app of the webrecorder project., swem library's special collections research center (scrc) at the college of william and mary is a learning lab for students, much like a science lab, except the raw materials we offer for your experimentation and observation are original manuscripts, photographs, rare books, sheet music, maps, and other unique or rare treasures documenting humanity's history and culture. focused on virginia history, our collections include diaries, letters, and other records of the daily lives of americans of all backgrounds. the university archives collects materials documenting the history of the college from the 1600s to the present., tacoma public library’s local history, genealogy, and special collections are located in the northwest room in the carnegie building - 2nd floor (c2) of the main branch. the carnegie building is the original 1903 carnegie library and the collections and services are dedicated to providing the most comprehensive and accessible local and regional history information available to the public. our collections feature tacoma city directories dating back to 1885, early to current newspapers, record indexes, maps, photos, postcards, manuscript collections, architectural plans, and much more., new brunswick free public library, gaithersburg high school is a grade 9-12 public school that serves a diverse population of over 2,300 students in gaithersburg, maryland. ghs promotes success for every student by providing an effective instructional program and educational partnerships. in a mutually respectful environment we celebrate diversity, encourage effort and support students. students pursue rigorous academic opportunities in order to maximize potential and become self-sustaining members of society. ghs is a signature school, offering 11 different career-focused signature strands, and provides a broad offering of classes that include advanced placement, honors credits, and college courses taught on the high school campus. the students in the extracurricular history club and book club selected the content for this archive-it collection., the office of library and information services (olis) is the state library agency for rhode island. olis supports and strengthens library and information services in the state to ensure that all residents will benefit from free and convenient access to library and information resources and services. in addition, olis participates in planning and providing access to online government information for state agencies and the public., bluffton university, the bodleian libraries is the integrated library service of the university of oxford. established in 2000, it comprises nearly 40 libraries. among these are major research libraries - including the bodleian library, which has been a library of legal deposit for almost 400 years - as well as libraries attached to faculties, departments and other institutions of the university. the combined collections of the bodleian libraries number more than 11 million printed items, and include extensive special collections and manuscripts., the frances loeb library is a preeminent global design resource that provides the harvard graduate school of design and the larger harvard university with a robust platform for design research, teaching, and learning., the mennonite church usa is an anabaptist denomination with roots in the radical reformation of 16th century europe. from its beginnings in mostly german-speaking parts of europe, the mennonite church is growing rapidly in many parts of the world. in fact, more mennonites currently reside in the southern hemisphere than in the northern. in the united states, people from various faith traditions, ethnicities, and nationalities are identifying with the vision and mission of mennonite church usa., mennonite church usa was formed in 2002 by the merger of the general conference mennonite church and the (old) mennonite church. mennonite church usa has nearly 100,000 adult members in nearly 900 congregations and 21 area conferences., mennonite church usa vision: god calls us to be followers of jesus christ and, by the power of the holy spirit, to grow as communities of grace, joy and peace, so that god’s healing and hope flow through us to the world., athens regional library system serves the counties of athens-clarke, madison, oconee, oglethorpe, and franklin, georgia. it consists of 11 branches throughout the area., the mission of the ashland library is to provide resources and services necessary to meet the evolving educational, recreational, and informational needs and interests of the community., this university of northern iowa (uni) is a public university in cedar falls, iowa. this archived web content is curated by special collections & university archives (sc&ua) at rod library. sc&ua uses archive-it to capture and preserve web content that relates to existing collections within the manuscripts collections and university archives. this includes, but is not limited to, websites for publications or individuals whose papers we currently hold; ephemeral online, born-digital content such as university event calendars; and websites maintained by colleges, departments, centers, and student organizations on campus. special preference is given to content that enhances new and existing manuscripts collections; content that is ephemeral in nature and/or is otherwise challenging to document in traditional form such as print; content that represents current areas with few physical holdings in the university archives; and content that provides documentation for sc&ua’s routine functions, namely previous iterations of sc&ua webpages. visit scua.library.uni.edu or contact sc&ua at libarchives@uni.edu., the community archives of belleville and hastings county collects and shares information about the history of belleville and hastings county region of ontario through the records of its people, businesses and local governments., founded in 1769, dartmouth is a member of the ivy league and consistently ranks among the world's greatest academic institutions. dartmouth has forged a singular identity for combining its deep commitment to outstanding undergraduate liberal arts and graduate education with distinguished research and scholarship in the arts and sciences and its three leading professional schools—the geisel school of medicine, thayer school of engineering, and the tuck school of business. the dartmouth college library offers support for research, teaching, and creative works with extensive collections, expert staff, and inspiring environments. through its web archiving program, the library collects websites that complement its existing collections and services, with a particular emphasis on collecting sites by and about dartmouth for the college archives., the center for jewish history in new york city illuminates history, culture, and heritage. the center provides a collaborative home for five partner organizations: american jewish historical society, american sephardi federation, leo baeck institute, yeshiva university museum, and yivo institute for jewish research., the partners’ archives comprise the world’s largest and most comprehensive archive of the modern jewish experience outside of israel. the collections span a thousand years, with more than 5 miles of archival documents (in dozens of languages and alphabet systems), more than 500,000 volumes, as well as thousands of artworks, textiles, ritual objects, recordings, films, and photographs., xavier university archives serves as the chief resource for historical materials about xavier university. it identifies, acquires, maintains, and makes accessible records of enduring value that document the development of xavier university since its founding in 1831 in support of the university’s administrative, teaching, research, and service goals. special collections collects, arranges, describes, preserves, and provides access to selected rare books and manuscripts that reflect the broad intellectual interests and work of the faculty, staff, and students of the university in support of the university’s teaching, research, and service goals., the arab american national museum's mission is to document, preserve, celebrate, and educate the public on the history, life, culture and contributions of arab americans., the franklin & marshall college archives & special collections organizes, preserves, and promotes the visual and written record of the college, faculty and student scholarship, and the digital and special collections of the library., the arizona state library, archives and public records ensures that the arizona legislature and arizonans have access to the information they need today, and the history of arizona for tomorrow, through partnerships with all types of cultural and public information institutions., the agency provides access to unique historical and contemporary resources in the areas of law, government, genealogy and arizoniana. the agency includes the official archives of the state, a state and federal publications depository library, the state law library, the capitol museum, and a genealogy and maps collection. the agency also offers special services for the visually and physically impaired, services to public libraries, and the public records management program., princeton theological seminary prepares women and men to serve jesus christ in ministries marked by faith, integrity, scholarship, competence, compassion, and joy, equipping them for leadership worldwide in congregations and the larger church, in classrooms and the academy, and in the public arena., the harvard university archives is the oldest and one of the largest institutional academic archives in the nation., the harvard university archives collects, organizes, preserves and provides access to a comprehensive record of more than 375 years of life at harvard. from 17th and 18th century diaries and scientific observations to 21st century web sites, the harvard university archives’ collections comprise over 51,000 feet and 9 terabytes of university records and related historical materials., this activity is tied integrally to records management services for harvard university staff, administrators and faculty. records management staff provide guidance and resources for all stages in the records and information lifecycle, from creating records through destruction of non-permanent records or transfer of permanent records to the harvard university archives., founded in 1934, rocky hill school is an independent, coeducational, college preparatory day school in east greenwich., rocky hill focuses on innovative teaching and an interactive educational experience that prepares students to become leaders and lifelong learners. our diverse student body is challenged academically and afforded opportunities not found at any other schools, the oklahoma department of libraries (odl) is leading the way in providing oklahoma's citizens comprehensive online access to the state's publications, websites, and other digitally preserved content., visit odl's other oklahoma digital prairie collections for additional resources., web archives collected by the georgia institute of technology archives, the university of northern colorado (unc) archives and special collections acquires and provides access to university websites and other web content documenting unc's people, activities, and culture., wheaton college is a private, four-year liberal arts college in norton massachusetts, founded in 1834., msu is one of the top research universities in the world—on one of the biggest, greenest campuses in the nation. home to nationally ranked and recognized academic, residential college, and service-learning programs, we're a diverse community of dedicated students and scholars, athletes and artists, scientists and leaders. university archives & historical collections of michigan state university is a place of discovery. more than 150 years of msu history can be explored, including original letters and diaries, photographs, and oral histories. our collections span the entirety of msu’s history and also contain historical materials not related to msu. some of our collection highlights include materials that document the physical campus and grounds, early student life, the lumber industry, environmentalism in michigan, and the civil war. michigan state university libraries' special collections was established in 1962 with the charge to house, preserve, and make accessible important research collections for educational use. today, special collections holds over 450,000 printed works, numerous manuscript and archival collections, and an extensive collection of ephemera in collection strengths including popular culture, lgbtqia+ and gender movements, comic art, africana, latinx/chicanx in michigan, and political activism., mission: to advance knowledge of ukraine through teaching, research, and publication in the humanities and the social sciences at harvard and worldwide., huri was established to advance knowledge of ukraine in the united states and abroad through research, teaching, and publication, particularly in history, language, and literature. this mission was shaped by huri's founder, omeljan pritsak, the first mykhailo s. hrushevs'kyi professor of ukrainian history, and by ihor sevcenko, dumbarton oaks professor of byzantine literature and history., with ukraine's independence in 1991, the institute's mission has broadened to include contemporary political, social, and economic issues. huri also supports the study of diverse religious and ethnic groups that make their home in ukraine, acts as a bridge between ukrainian studies and the study of russia, poland, turkey, belarus, and moldova, and works to develop connections with ukraine's emerging cultural and academic institutions., the alaska state library promotes and coordinates library services to the community of alaskan libraries, serves as the primary research library for state government, and collects, preserves, and makes accessible alaska-related materials, including state of alaska publications., university of north carolina at charlotte, j. murrey atkins library, special collections and university archives, located in kalamazoo, michigan, kalamazoo college was founded in 1833, placing it among the 100 oldest colleges and universities in the nation., the science history institute collects and shares the stories of innovators and of discoveries that shape our lives. we preserve and interpret the history of chemistry, chemical engineering, and the life sciences. headquartered in philadelphia, with offices in california and europe, the institute houses an archive and a library for historians and researchers, a fellowship program for visiting scholars from around the globe, a community of researchers who examine historical and contemporary issues, an acclaimed museum that is free and open to the public, and a state-of-the-art conference center. for more information visit sciencehistory.org., the science history institute was formed in 2018 by the merger of the chemical heritage foundation and life sciences foundation., part of the indiana university libraries, one of the nation's largest university library systems, the indiana university kokomo library supports teaching and research on the iu kokomo campus. the iu kokomo library also serves indiana's 4th congressional district as part of the federal depository library program (fdlp). notable collections include bestsellers, graphic novels, and the iu kokomo campus archives., the smithsonian institution archives captures, preserves, and makes available to the public the history of this extraordinary institution. from its inception in 1846 to the present, the records of the history of the institution — its people, its programs, its research, and its stories — have been gathered, organized, and disseminated so that everyone can learn about the smithsonian., we are the american institute of cpas, the world’s largest member association representing the accounting profession. our history of serving the public interest stretches back to 1887. today, you'll find our 431,000+ members in 137 countries and territories, representing many areas of practice, including business and industry, public practice, government, education and consulting., das bibliotheksservice-zentrum baden-württemberg (bsz) versorgt wissenschaftliche und kulturelle einrichtungen mit dienstleistungen, insbesondere zum zwecke der erhaltung wissenschaftlicher und kultureller tradition. im rahmen seiner dienstleistung swbregio spiegelt das bsz in verschiedenen archive-it-sammlungen im auftrag webauftritte deutscher städte, gemeinden und kreise sowie verwandter institutionen. -- baden-wuerttemberg library service center (bsz) provides academic and cultural institutions with solutions, especially for the purpose of preserving scientific and cultural tradition. in the context of bsz service swbregio, websites of german cities, municipalities, districts and their associated corporations are collected in commission within various archive-it collections., the mission of the iowa state university library special collections department is to identify, select, preserve, create access to, provide reference assistance for, and promote the use of rare and unique research materials that support major research areas of iowa state university., the general commission on archives and history of the united methodist church (gcah) serves the church's ministry of memory so we may continue to learn from our past and anticipate our future., the linda lear center for special collections and archives preserves the institutional memory of connecticut college from its founding in 1911 to the present-day. the lear center collects, preserves, and makes accessible material that reflects the evolution of connecticut college and its campus and academic life. this archive-it collection preserves a record of connecticut college's web presence since may 2012., vancouver island university library web archive, “westborough on the web: archive-it” is an archive of westborough websites and social media that have been captured and saved so that you can “go back in time” and see what they used to look like. you can discover more resources like this one at the westborough center for history and culture (http://www.westboroughcenter.org/) at the westborough public library. if you have a suggestion for a web or social media site that should be added to this collection, visit https://goo.gl/forms/pkaxmir0yjpodf1c2., the university of dayton is a top-tier catholic research university with academic offerings from the undergraduate to the doctoral levels. we are a diverse community committed, in the marianist tradition, to educating the whole person and linking learning and scholarship with leadership and service., the ut southwestern digital library & learning center supports the information needs of ut southwestern’s research, educational, and clinical activities. its mission is to advance health care discovery and innovation through service and partnerships. the special collections and archives is home to ut southwestern's collection of archives, artifacts, history of medicine journals and monographs, and rare books., patagonia public library, the princeton university library is central to the intellectual life on campus. it exists to serve a distinguished faculty, dedicated to the highest standards of teaching and research; an accomplished group of graduate students, striving to combine advanced study and original work of their own; and some 5,200 undergraduates, who have chosen a university famous for its emphasis on independent research. princeton university library builds and maintains collections, both analog and digital, to meet the needs of all of these groups and the unforeseen needs of researchers in the future., the web archive collections include websites, online audio and video, blogs, and other media, organized around specific topics, events, or movements, as well as the schomburg center’s own web pages. collections are developed and curated around certain topics relating to the schomburg center and black culture. depending on collection guidelines and the nature of individual websites, websites may be archived at regularly scheduled intervals, such as semi-annual or quarterly. development of the schomburg center’s web archiving program is made possible with generous support from community webs, funded by the institute of museum and library services and the internet archive, and the andrew w. mellon foundation; and the andrew w. mellon foundation’s generous support for the #schomburgsyllabus project under the scholarly communications grant structure. the #schomburgsyllabus project aims to document 21st century global black life by continuing the development of the #syllabus web archive collection and connecting today’s digital creations with the schomburg center’s historical collections. for more information visit: https://www.nypl.org/about/locations/schomburg/webarchives founded in 1925 and named a national historic landmark in 2017, the schomburg center for research in black culture is one of the world’s leading cultural institutions devoted to the preservation, research, interpretation, and exhibition of materials focused on african american, african diasporan, and african experiences., established in 1977, the department of records and information services (doris) preserves and provides public access to historical and contemporary records and information about new york city government. we operate the municipal archives, the municipal library, and the records center., the museum of lennox and addington provides insights into everyday life and stories of lennox and addington county. the mission of the museum is to preserve the ongoing story of the county of lennox and addington from prehistoric times to the present; to preserve the legal record of the county, its constituent municipalities and outside agencies; to showcase and tell the story of our county community for its citizens and visitors; and to contribute to making lennox and addington county a significant tourist destination., inspired by colorado state university’s land-grant mission, we build, preserve, and provide access to distinctive archival, photographic, and printed materials, with a particular commitment to collections documenting agriculture and water resources. we support the csu libraries’ mission to inspire innovation, and advance the ways knowledge is shared and preserved, by serving students and scholars at csu and from around the world., willamette is a nationally renowned, highly selective private liberal arts university in salem, oregon. founded in 1842, willamette is the first university established in the western u.s. and has become a national leader in sustainability and civic engagement., the special collections and archives (sca) division of trinity university's coates library collects, organizes, preserves, and makes available rare books, manuscripts, other special collections, and archival material to the trinity community and researchers at large. a component of sca is the university archives, which plays a central role in managing the university's institutional records. since 2013, sca had used archive-it to capture snapshots of trinity university's website and various related pages. crawled pages go into the internet archive's wayback machine making them available to the public. please contact university archivist abra schnur at aschnur@trinity.edu with any questions or crawl requests., founded in 1829, rochester institute of technology is a privately endowed, coeducational university with nine colleges emphasizing career education and experiential learning. questions? please contact us here: https://library.rit.edu/depts/archives/contact, smith college opened in 1875 and is among the largest women’s colleges in the united states, with students from every state and 60 countries. the smith web archiving program is administered by the smith college libraries and aims to collect and preserve web content associated with smith college, as well as selected websites of organizations and individuals whose records and papers are held in the college archives and special collections., the southern california association of law libraries (scall) is a local chapter of the american association of law libraries (aall). scall was approved as a chapter in 1953 and has an active membership of over 300 librarians and information professionals from academic, private, state, and county law libraries in the southern california area. scall sponsors an annual institute, has over 20 committees, publishes a chapter newsletter, runs a listserv, and maintains a website., open sound new orleans was a community media project that from 2007-2012 invited and enabled new orleanians to document their lives in sound. new orleanians could participate by recording, or making recording requests for, the important sounds and voices in their lives and adding them to a soundmap. in order to facilitate a diversity of direct dispatches from around our city, we lent recording equipment – and offered training in its use – to community organizations, neighborhood groups and individuals. while the project is no longer accepting contributions, previously contributed recordings can still be shared, reused and adapted by others (please refer to our license for additional information)., from our mission: “our intent is to make more accessible the authentic, unedited sounds and voices of new orleans. sharing the sounds of our city as we hear them, move through them, and create them, is an act of celebration. but it also serves each contributor – you and me and anyone else who might participate – as a simple way to extend our own experience to others, harness our representations and those of our city, and participate in new orleans' public culture with intentionality.”, welcome to the university of manitoba libraries' web archives homepage. the material within the archive-it account is collected for research and private study. the university of manitoba libraries respects the intellectual property rights and the proprietary rights of others. copyright ownership remains with the owner(s) identified on a website and governed by local, national, and/or international laws and regulations. the uml assumes no liability for the accuracy or lawfulness of the archived websites or the contents within. to learn more about web archiving at the university of manitoba libraries, including our web archiving policies, visit: https://libguides.lib.umanitoba.ca/web-archiving, the mission of the folger shakespeare library is to preserve and enhance our collection; to make our collection accessible to scholars and others who can use it productively; and to advance understanding and appreciation of shakespeare’s writings and the culture of the early modern world., the university archives at the texas collection serves as the secure repository for baylor university records. its principal function is to collect, preserve, and provide appropriate access to records of enduring value related to the history of baylor university., the south dakota state archives and the south dakota state library uses archive-it to preserve the websites of south dakota state government departments and agencies, including state-funded academic institutions. these websites host annual reports, rules and regulations, legislative documents, and other born-digital state documents., the società italiana per lo studio della storia contemporanea (sissco) is the main italian voluntary association for the study of contemporary history. founded in 1990, it gathers whoever in italy is professionally interested in the study of the recent past, both in the academia and outside of it. the sissco website, here archived, documents the social life of the association since 1997, its congresses and workshops, the official communications, the reports and the publications it promotes., hartford history center, hartford public library, the iu bloomington libraries are one of the leading academic research library systems in north america, providing strong collections, quality service and instructional programs, and leadership in the application of information technologies., the bloomington campus library holdings include more than 6 million bound volumes and more than 17 million other materials, including manuscripts, maps, music, microforms, and films. the iu bloomington libraries comprise the main library (which houses collections in the humanities and social sciences), subject-specific campus libraries, and other units such as the wylie house museum and university archives., opened in 1914, the royal ontario museum (rom) showcases art, culture, and nature from around the globe and across the ages. one of north america's most renowned institutions of natural history and world cultures, canada's largest museum is home to a world-class collection of more than six million specimens, objects and artifacts, featured in 40 gallery and exhibition spaces., the mission of the asbury park public library is to provide quality, cost-effective services, and lifelong learning opportunities, through books and a variety of other formats, to meet the informational, educational, cultural and recreational needs and interests of its diverse population., , the library acquires, organizes and provides books and other relevant materials, ensures access to information sources throughout the nation and the world, serves the public with expert and caring assistance, and reaches out to all members of the community. the library especially recognizes the responsibility to serve as a place for children to discover the joy of reading, the importance of literacy, and the value of libraries., the library is a forum for all points of views and adheres to the principles of the intellectual freedom as stated in the library bill of rights promulgated by the american library association., please note: if you do not see your website and would like it archived, please email us. if you do see your website and would not like it archived, please email us and we will take it down. we have done our best to find all of the local businesses, but some websites cannot be archived due to size or format and we apologize for that. please email with any other questions or concerns about the archive-it program. thank you., dag hammarskjold middle school, generally referred to as dag, is located on wallingford's east side, next to the lyman hall high school campus. elementary feeder schools are: moses y. beach, pond hill, rock hill, stevens, and yalesville., built in 1961, the school was named to honor the international peace advocate and former secretary general of the united nations., there are approximately 720 students in grades 6, 7, and 8., dag hammarskjold middle school creates a caring and stimulating environment that develops self-esteem and mutual respect while fostering the intellectual, social, and emotional growth of each student., at the mcgill school of information studies (sis) we seek to find better ways to organize, access, disseminate, use, and preserve information and recorded knowledge., founded in 1885, rollins college is an independent, co-educational, comprehensive liberal arts college located in winter park, florida. the rollins web archiving program selects, captures, describes, preserves, and makes accessible the historic web presence of the college. on a selective basis, the program will also capture websites that complement existing collections in the rollins college archives and special collections, as well as websites produced by affiliates of rollins college. for most collections, related materials are available in the rollins college archives and special collections., a world-leading library and centre of digital excellence, the state library of nsw informs, educates, inspires and surprises online, onsite and on tour. the library’s rich heritage collections, contemporary print and digital materials, partnership with the public library network and vibrant collaborations enable australians to interrogate our past and imagine our future., the new york state archives preserves and makes accessible over 250 million records of new york’s state and colonial governments dating from 1630 to the present., the chatham university archives & special collections include web-based records that document the history of the university and the university community. web-based records include university websites and the web-based, annual course catalog., la escuela graduada de ciencias y tecnologías de la información, de la universidad de puerto rico (egcti) es una unidad académica acreditada por la american library association, con un alto nivel de compromiso por la labor docente, de investigación y servicio, que le brinda, a futuros profesionales de la información, los conocimientos necesarios para desempeñarse con éxito en diferentes sectores del campo de la bibliotecología y las ciencias de la información. su visión se centra en la innovación en el campo de la información en puerto rico, el caribe y las américas, ejerciendo liderazgo en un mundo global y tecnológico. ____________________ the graduate school of information sciences and technologies is an academic unit from the university of puerto rico. the school is accreddited by the american library association and its vision is to encourage innovation in the field of library and information science in puerto rico, the caribbean and the americas, exercising leadership in a global and technological world., cal poly, located in san luis obispo, ca, fosters teaching, scholarship, and service in a learn by doing environment in which students, staff, and faculty are partners in discovery. as a polytechnic university, cal poly promotes the application of theory to practice. as a comprehensive institution, cal poly provides a balanced education in the arts, sciences, and technology, while encouraging cross-disciplinary and co-curricular experiences. as an academic community, cal poly values free inquiry, cultural and intellectual diversity, mutual respect, civic engagement, and social and environmental responsibility. the mission of robert e. kennedy library is to promote open and informed inquiry, foster collaboration and innovation, support the unique needs of every student and scholar at cal poly, and contribute to the cultural life of san luis obispo., this collection documents the web pages for the icahn school of medicine at mount sinai, the mount sinai hospital, and the mount sinai health system, all in new york city., the grand rapids public library connects people to the transforming power of knowledge. founded in 1871, the library has been collecting and preserving the history of our community from the beginning. the grand rapids history & special collections department offers extensive archival collections, local history resources, genealogy resources, rare books and the furniture design collection., john gilmore is a private individual who cares about archiving the internet for future generations. he is the first individual to join the archive-it program, as a partner with the internet archive, to collect and index documents of interest. mr. gilmore also co-founded the electronic frontier foundation., the national library and information system authority (nalis) is responsible for the development and coordination of library services throughout trinidad and tobago. this includes all public libraries as well as school libraries in government owned institutions, and the heritage library division. nalis’ heritage library provides the services identified by ifla which are associated with preservation of the complete collection of material emanating from and relating to trinidad and tobago., the university of notre dame hesburgh libraries collections contain content in irish studies, collected since 2020., the institute of conservation (icon) brings together people with a passion for the care of cultural heritage. we champion excellence and promote the value of caring for heritage. icon’s vision is for cultural heritage to be valued and accessible and for its future to be enhanced and safeguarded by excellence in conservation., the internet archive and the new york art resources consortium (nyarc) have embarked on a collaborative project aimed at capturing and preserving at-risk web-based art materials. the project, formerly called the consortial action to preserve born-digital web-based art history & culture and renamed as collaborative art archive (carta), created a collaborative entity of art libraries building collections of archived web-based content related to art history and contemporary art practice. through this collaborative approach, the project leverages shared infrastructure, expertise and collecting activities amongst participating organizations, scaling the extent of web-published, born-digital materials preserved and accessible for art scholarship and research. the goals are to promote streamlined access to art reference and research resources, enable new types of scholarly use for art-related materials, and ensure that the art historical record of the 21st century is readily accessible far into the future., at cern, our work helps to uncover what the universe is made of and how it works. we do this by providing a unique range of particle accelerator facilities to researchers, to advance the boundaries of human knowledge., the university of miami libraries collects and preserves materials covering a broad range of subject areas in support of teaching, learning, and research. the um libraries web archive parallels and complements the libraries’ collections, with a focus on the collecting strengths of the cuban heritage collection, special collections, and university archives. since web content can change rapidly and disappear without warning, web archiving is an important component of the um libraries’ collecting strategy in order to document the web presence of the institutions, organizations, people, events, and topics represented in the libraries’ collections., the oracle education foundation is a nonprofit organization funded by oracle. its mission is to inspire students globally to think, connect, create and share -- using technology to help them dissolve boundaries, fulfill their potential, and create a better society. from 2003 to 2013 the foundation offered thinkquest. delivered globally, thinkquest included a project environment that supported collaborative learning; technology competitions that challenged students to solve problems and the award-winning thinkquest library, a learning resource visited by millions., ibrattleboro.com is a citizen-written news and information site serving brattleboro, vermont. community perceptions of town, regional, state, and national issues have been documented in stories, comments, polls, photos, and events since february of 2003. ibrattleboro also includes the brain trust, a wiki of brattleboro historical documents and photos., harvard kennedy school maintains an abiding commitment to advancing the public interest by training skilled, enlightened leaders and solving public problems through world-class scholarship and active engagement with practitioners and decision makers. the school offers the depth, reflection, insight, and excellence of ideas and teaching that can shape future leaders, affect public policies, and make an impact on people and their daily lives., harvard kennedy school's archive it account is managed by harvard kennedy school's library & knowledge services., a london-based research library, museum and archive specialising in belarusian studies, regina public library is a dynamic hub of literacy, learning, curiosity and new ideas, integral to the social and economic vibrancy of regina. we inspire individuality, connection and diversity., stony brook university was established in 1957 as a college for the preparation of secondary school teachers of mathematics and science; our first campus was located at oyster bay, long island, on the grounds of a former gold coast estate. in 1962, a new campus was built in stony brook, on land donated by local philanthropist ward melville. part of the state university of new york system, stony brook now encompasses 123 buildings on 1,100 acres. in the nearly fifty years since its founding, the university has grown tremendously, and is now recognized as one of the nation's important centers of learning and scholarship—carrying out the mandate given by the state board of regents in 1960 to become a university that would stand with the finest in the country., stony brook university libraries' archive-it partnership account provides a gateway to intellectual discovery in support of stony brook university’s missions of education, research and service by documenting the evolution of the university's development, and ensuring lasting access to the intellectual output of the university's campus community and partners., the curtis institute of music, located in philadelphia, educates and trains exceptionally gifted young musicians for careers as performing artists on the highest professional level. it provides full-tuition scholarships to all of its students, ensuring that admissions are based solely on artistic promise. curtis provides complete and diversified musical training, plus liberal arts courses., hagley museum and library collects, preserves, and interprets the unfolding history of american enterprise. hagley's collections document the interaction between business and the cultural, social, and political dimensions of our society from the late 18th century to the present., unesco is the united nations educational, scientific and cultural organization. it seeks to build peace through international cooperation in education, the sciences and culture. unesco's programmes contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals defined in agenda 2030, adopted by the un general assembly in 2015., cass junior high school, located in darien, il, is a 5th-8th grade building. the 8th grade advanced social studies class participated in this project under the guidance of the library of congress and archive-it. the class consists of 18 diverse students and all represent the wide variety of interests and focuses of a typical young teenager in chicagoland., the archives of michigan seeks to permanently preserve michigan government information for reference and research purposes. annual snapshots of the michigan.gov web portal (as well as legislative and judicial branch web pages) will be captured in december of each year., lynn university is an independent college based in boca raton, florida, with approximately 3,000 students from 100 countries., founded in 1902, the mississippi department of archives and history is a comprehensive historical agency that collects, preserves, and provides access to the archival resources of the state, administers museums and historic sites, and oversees statewide programs for historic preservation, government records management, and publications. the archives’ non-circulating collection is the largest publicly accessible collection of manuscript, print, audiovisual and electronic materials relating to the state., university of wyoming libraries & american heritage center web archives, government, community organization, and cultural heritage sites of interest to toledo and lucas county., after more than twenty years of uninterrupted growth, ghent university in belgium is now one of the most important institutions of higher education and research in the low countries. ghent university yearly attracts over 28,000 students, with a foreign student population of over 2,200 eu and non-eu citizens and offers a broad range of study programmes in all academic and scientific branches. one of the focus points of the university library is long-term digital preservation. one aspect of that task is to preserve the content of various university websites at different points in time., macodrum library, carleton university, this collection currently includes two distinct sub-collections: the uw-madison collection and the madison lgbtq+ archive. the stem cell research archives project was a previous collection member of this site. the uw-madison collection includes university of wisconsin web sites that document many aspects of campus life including university administration, colleges, departments, and major campus organizations, student life, research, buildings, and special and ongoing events. we also crawl uw system and colleges administration and uw extension web sites. the stem cell research archives project at the university of wisconsin-madison libraries collects, preserves, and provides access to records of stem cell research at uw-madison and reactions in wisconsin to work accomplished or underway at uw-madison. for more information about these collections or uw campus history, visit http://archives.library.wisc.edu or contact uwarchiv@library.wisc.edu. on, wisconsin!, founded in 1850, the university of rochester is one of the country's top-tier research universities. located in rochester, new york, the university gives students exceptional opportunities for interdisciplinary study and close collaboration with faculty through its unique cluster-based curriculum. the university’s school of arts and sciences and hajim school of engineering and applied sciences are complemented by its eastman school of music, simon school of business, warner school of education, laboratory for laser energetics, school of medicine and dentistry, school of nursing, eastman institute for oral health, and memorial art gallery., the university of rochester’s archive-it collections are focused on two categories of websites: 1) pages created by or related to the university community (including areas such as administration, communications, and student life), and 2) a selection of pages that align with the broader collection-development goals of river campus libraries’ department of rare books, special collections, and preservation (including sites that document the history and culture of rochester, new york). for more information, please visit http://rbscp.lib.rochester.edu/collectiondevelopment., the internet society is a global nonprofit organization working to shape the future of the internet to ensure that it is open, globally-connected, and secure., liber (ligue des bibliothèques européennes de recherche – association of european research libraries) is europe’s largest research library association. for nearly 50 years, our network has collaborated to achieve the liber mission of enabling world class research. some 450 national, university and special libraries participate in liber. furthermore, liber works closely with library and academic organisations worldwide., towson university (tu or towson) is a public university in towson, maryland, eight miles north of downtown baltimore., founded in 1866 as maryland's first training school for teachers, towson university is a part of the university system of maryland. since its founding, the university has evolved into eight subsidiary colleges and over 20,000 students. this makes towson one of the largest public universities in maryland, and it still produces the most teachers of any university in the state., for information about this page or tu's use of archive-it, please contact the special collections and university archives at spcoll@towson.edu., the barnard archives and special collections collects and makes accessible materials that document campus and academic life at barnard, as well as histories of feminism and dance., founded in 1697, trinity church is a vibrant episcopal parish, where daily worship services form the heart of our christian identity., trinity is a grant-making organization, streaming funds throughout the city and the world, as well as a resource for lower manhattan's commuters and tourists, who find inspirational music within its walls., through its congregational staff and maintenance teams, it is a sacred oasis amid the busy downtown streets., it is an important player in the world of new york city commercial realty, and home to an award-winning preschool. it is the home to the committees, guilds, and task-forces of a congregation committed to bringing god's kingdom to this world., trinity also sponsors an annual national theological conference that gathers top thinkers to the church nave, and a series of related small group gatherings, meetings, and classes for christian formation. also part of the trinity family is this award-winning website., trinity is a home for the elderly and disabled. it is also the home of st. paul's chapel, the little chapel that stood after september 11, which now serves as a congregation for peace and reconciliation., wilmington public library district our mission is to provide access to information, ideas, and cultural opportunities essential to a literate and educated society and to provide a welcoming environment where people can seek out and explore all library resources without barriers., the hargrett and russell libraries are engaged in web archiving to capture and preserve at-risk content about the history and culture of georgia that is in alignment with our collecting areas and to expand collecting into areas like student life, activism, and local elections which are primarily documented through social media. please email sclib@uga.edu for assistance with these web collections. the georgia government publications collection supports uga’s role as the official depository for georgia state publications. please email mapsinfo@uga.edu for assistance with this web collection., williams middle magnet, located in tampa, florida, is an international baccalaureate/middle years programme school. each year, since 1999, wms has been rated an “a” school by the state of florida. more than half of our student population is a member of the national junior honor society and wms has been designated a magnet schools of america merit award winner 11 years in a row. our school supports a diverse population that participates in a diverse curriculum. robotics, model united nations, math leagues, and curriculum enrichment opportunities are examples of the rich and holistic experiences our students a partake in., biblioteca nazionale centrale di firenze, drawing on its unique collection of physical and digital primary source materials and artifacts, the center for brooklyn history inspires discovery, advances research, and preserves the history and cultural heritage of brooklyn’s diverse communities. through regular high-profile events, exhibits, and educational programs at 128 pierrepont street, online, and in branch libraries throughout brooklyn, the center also serves as a hub for residents, students, and scholars interested in the history and civic life of their borough and city. we are part of the community webs program. submit suggestions for brooklyn-related web content we should collect using this form., california state university, chico is a comprehensive university principally serving northern california, our state and nation through excellence in instruction, research, creative activity, and public service., the university is committed to assist students in their search for knowledge and understanding and to prepare them with the attitudes, skills, and habits of lifelong learning in order to assume responsibility in a democratic community and to be useful members of a global society., meriam library is the main library for the campus of california state university, chico, serving 16,000 full-time students, more than 970 instructional faculty, and over 1,000 staff, as well as the communities of chico and northeastern california. meriam library was named in honor of ted meriam and the meriam family., the tahrir institute for middle east policy (timep), nonpartisan, and nonprofit organization, is dedicated to understanding and supporting middle eastern countries undergoing democratic transitions and committed to informing u.s. and international policymakers and the public of developments in these countries., jersey city free public library, the university of texas at arlington special collections uses the internet archive’s archive-it service to capture and provide access to websites that are deemed to be of enduring value. we have four collections of archived websites that correspond to other collecting areas in special collections. members of the university and community can nominate websites to be included in special collections archived websites by visiting: https://www.questionpro.com/a/takesurvey?tt=p9l1wem2ega%3d, this is the official archive of the university of georgia school of law's www.law.uga.edu website., preserving the past, exploring the future, k-12 web archiving partner, the university of waterloo, located at the heart of canada’s technology triangle, is one of canada’s leading comprehensive universities. we’re home to 30,000 full- and part-time undergraduate and graduate students who are dedicated to making the future better and brighter. as we plan for the future, the university of waterloo library is focusing its efforts in three strategic areas: student experience, space, and e-initiatives. the uwaterloo web archive is one of these new initiatives, preserving a record of waterloo's web presence as part of our university archives collections., the canadian friends historical association works to preserve and communicate the on-going history and faith of friends in canada and their contribution to the canadian experience., harvested by: library services and content management, u.s. government publishing office., the federal depository library program, fdlp, was established by congress in 1895 to provide free, permanent public access to federal government information. the us government publishing office administers the fdlp on behalf of the participating libraries and the american people. more information about the fdlp can be found at www.fdlp.gov. to provide permanent public access to federal agency web content, the federal depository library program harvests selected u.s. government web sites in their entirety. access to these sites is made available through links in our online public access catalog, the catalog of u. s. government publications http://catalog.gpo.gov. for more questions about our web archiving program contact us at fdlpwebarchiving@gpo.gov. note: works of the u.s. government are not subject to copyright protection pursuant to 17 u.s.c. § 105. content in this web archive may contain copyrighted material used with permission of the copyright owner., the tipp city public web archives exist to document the present-day history of tipp city, ohio, and the greater dayton area. these collections also include captures of government websites, events of significance, and efforts to document a more diverse history of the area., columbia college chicago is an international leader and recognized pioneer in arts and media education. with over 120 years of deep experience teaching creative students to develop authentic voices and meaningful skills, columbia graduates are fully prepared to launch sustainable careers in the visual, performing, media and communication arts., our educational philosophy is rooted in the essential wedding of theory with practice. our students are immersed in a creative learning environment designed to give them ample opportunity to test and perfect their art, craft or practice, while grounding them in a rigorous academic curriculum that provides broad context and the intellectual, analytical and creative capacity to succeed in their chosen fields., the purposes of the national gallery of canada are to develop, maintain and make known, throughout canada and internationally, a collection of works of art, both historic and contemporary, with special but not exclusive reference to canada, and to further knowledge, understanding and enjoyment of art in general among all canadians., established in 1951 by corning glass works (now corning incorporated) as a gift to the nation for the company’s 100th anniversary, the corning museum of glass is a not-for-profit museum dedicated to telling the story of a single material: glass. annually welcoming just under half a million visitors from around the world, the museum's campus is home to the world’s most comprehensive collection of glass, the world’s foremost library on glass, and one of the top glassworking schools in the world., glass is a versatile, ancient material that is still being explored and understood by artists, scientists and historians today. the story of glass is a story about art, history, culture, technology, science, craft and design., the stanford university archives is the official repository for records of stanford university and serves as its institutional memory. the archives collects, preserves, administers, and promotes access to materials in any format that document the history of stanford, including its founders, administration, faculty, students, and alumni/ae., the university of scranton weinberg memorial library serves the university's students, administration, alumni and community by collecting, preserving, and providing access to records of permanent value. increasingly, these records are born digital and dynamic. web archiving not only preserves the university's web presence but also leverages the university's website and social media accounts as aggregators of digital information about the university - including reports, strategic plans, press releases, viewbooks, and media - that are otherwise vulnerable to digital degradation or loss. contact the weinberg memorial library at digitalcollections@scranton.edu if you have questions or suggestions for the university of scranton web archiving initiative., lifeposts’ mission is to ensure that every person’s life story can be beautifully told, vividly celebrated, and preserved., lifeposts’ easy-to-use storytelling tools enable you to create beautiful memorials, birthday celebrations, and digital keepsakes for all of life’s important milestones., price county genealogical society was formed in march of 1993 by a group interested in furthering genealogical research and develop genealogical resources for price county, wisconsin. the genealogy collections include cemetery, school, and obituary indexes, as well as local history books. of note is the word-searchable phillips centennial album 1876-1976., the rockefeller foundation supports work that expands opportunity and strengthens resilience to social, economic, health and environmental challenges—affirming its pioneering philanthropic mission since 1913 to “promote the well-being” of humanity., the special collections and university archives at the university of massachusetts amherst is home to the library's rare, unique, and valuable holdings, including collections of archives and manuscripts, photographs and digital files. these collections are highly diverse and richly interconnected, and center on four primary areas of interest: social change, the histories and culture of new england, innovation and entrepreneurship, and the past and present community of the university of massachusetts., the waltham public library is a fully-funded community hub, fostering a healthy democratic society by providing a wealth of current informational, educational, and recreational resources free of charge to all members of the community. the library is known throughout the area for its knowledgeable and friendly staff, welcoming and safe environment, accessibility, convenience, current technology, and helpful assistance., the waltham public library provides the city’s multi-ethnic, economically diverse population with popular informational, recreational and educational library resources, and services. the library staff selects materials in a variety of formats to meet known and anticipated demand, strives to make the community aware of library services and materials, and endeavors to make those resources accessible to all with friendliness and efficiency., the cedar mill & bethany community libraries association is one of the largest nonprofit library associations in the united states. the libraries are members of wccls (washington county cooperative library services), which serves the second-most populous county in oregon. the libraries' mission is to provide an open door to the joy of reading, lifelong learning and personal enrichment, with an emphasis on the literacy development of children. the libraries are committed to support the values of intellectual freedom and open access to information; literacy, life-long learning and personal growth for all; and support diversity in our evolving community., the columbia university libraries (cul) web resources collection program archives selected websites in thematic areas corresponding to existing cul collection strengths, websites produced by affiliates of columbia university, and websites from organizations or individuals whose papers or records are held in cul's physical archives., forbes library, the public library for northampton, massachusetts, provides a wide range of information, materials and services to all of the people of northampton and massachusetts. forbes library is a welcoming haven for all. we build connections that strengthen our communities, inspire curiosity, open windows to the past, and create pathways to the future., texas a&m university- commerce is a public four year teaching and research institution located in northeast texas. founded in 1889 by william mayo as east texas normal college, the university has over 11,000 students and is the second largest in the a&m system. the velma k. waters library at texas a&m university-commerce provides access to more than 1 million cataloged items to support the teaching and research needs of its students and faculty. the special collections department is dedicated to preserving documents relating to the history of the university and the northeast texas region., the ncar library and archives seek to preserve the institutional history and intellectual output of ncar/ucar., in diesem webarchiv werden regionale websites, die sich auf das saarland beziehen und von der universitäts- und landesbibliothek des saarlandes (sulb) ausgewählt werden, gesammelt. die archivierung erfolgt durch das bibliotheksservice-zentrum baden-württemberg (bsz) im auftrag der sulb. - in this web archive, regional websites referring to the saarland, selected by the saarland university and state library (sulb) are collected. crawls are performed by bibliotheksservice-zentrum baden-württemberg (bsz) in behalf of sulb., university of washington libraries special collections is the major resource for rare and archival materials covering a broad range of topics, formats, and periods., an online collection of web pages documenting african american art by black artists in texas., mount dora high school has about 1300 students and is located 30 minutes north of orlando. the quaint town of mount dora is always busy and bustling with its art shows and festivals. at mount dora high school we urge our students to bring out their creativity. our collections showcase the intelligence and creativity of our students., rooftop is a k-8 public, alternative elementary school located in the center of san francisco on two sites on the eastern slope of twin peaks. our student population reflects the city’s diverse ethnic background. programs in art, music, and drama are considered an integral part of the rooftop experience. the archive/opera class at rooftop's studio at mayeda gives students the opportunity create both the “archives” (from greek ta arkheia public records, and the “opera,” (the work). as we explore the school’s history, we make decisions about what we would like to archive and come together to create new works of art in the process., with a history spanning across more than two centuries, middlebury college is a unique institution, among the most highly regarded liberal arts colleges, with a reach extending from our main campus in vermont's champlain valley to specialized and graduate programs located around the world., special collections and archives at the middlebury college library serves as a research laboratory for both the middlebury community and independent scholars. as part of our firm commitments to open scholarship and to preserving a deep historical record of the middlebury college community, we excited to be able to collect and share relevant web content with people around the world via archive-it., university of colorado boulder, special collections & archives, concordia university is a montreal-based public university founded in 1974 by the merger of two institutions: sir georges williams university and loyola college. it has a campus located in downtown montreal and another campus at the notre-dame-de-grâce district., the denver public library connects people with information, ideas and experiences to provide enjoyment, enrich lives and strengthen our community., this is an archive of u.s. senator kamala d. harris’s official government social media accounts from her tenure as united states senator for california from 2017 to 2021., the alabama department of archives and history tells the story of the people of alabama by preserving records and artifacts of historical value and by promoting a better understanding of alabama history., the david m. rubenstein rare book and manuscript library at duke university collects and preserves materials spanning a broad range of subjects areas in support of research and teaching at the university. the world wide web is home to many personal and organizational records related to those collecting efforts. the rubenstein's archive-it collections insure that these important digital resources are preserved and continue to be available to the public., the university of florida’s special and area studies collections department (sasc) collects and preserves materials covering a broad range of subject areas in support of teaching, learning, and research. this web archive supports and complements existing collections including those of the university archives as well as other sasc collecting areas. web archiving is an important component of sasc's collecting strategy to document the web presence of the institutions, organizations, people, events, and topics represented in the libraries’ collections. for most collections, related materials can be found through our finding aid database., home to one of the world’s most intact public collections of any major artist, the clyfford still museum offers nine beautiful galleries of still’s art, historic photos, objects and letters from the clyfford still archives, interactive features, a pair of tranquil outdoor terraces, views into storage and conservation areas, a hands-on art creation studio, shopping, exciting programs and events, and more., the clyfford still museum is located in the heart of denver’s golden triangle creative district west of the denver art museum’s hamilton building. the two-story, 28,500-square-foot building was designed by brad cloepfil of allied works architecture specifically to display clyfford still’s work., considered one of the most important painters of the 20th century, clyfford still (1904–1980) was among the first generation of abstract expressionist artists. the clyfford still museum collection represents 95 percent of the artist’s lifetime output, including approximately 3,125 works created between 1920 and 1980 as well as his complete archives., the university of libraries has an active digital initiatives and collections program, which includes the following service areas: web archiving, digitization, research data curation, digital repository development, spatial data, metadata and digital preservation., the henry ford provides unique educational experiences based on authentic objects, stories, and lives from america’s traditions of ingenuity, resourcefulness, and innovation. our purpose is to inspire people to learn from these traditions to help shape a better future., nancy’s very own foundation is a canadian private foundation established by the honourable nancy ruth, cm in 1984. nancy ruth, who served as a member of the senate of canada from 2005 to 2017, is a feminist, activist and philanthropist. she has campaigned for increasing dedicated charitable giving to women and girls. the foundation has used the internet to make the history of women, and women’s activism, in canada visible and lively, to teach about the value and importance of women’s lived experiences, and to urge the use of a women’s lens in making public policy and the elimination of systemic discrimination against women in all their diversity., chicago3d encourages creating, sharing and preserving 3d imagery. chicago3d is actively archiving online stereoscopic web content for future generations. content includes websites related to stereoscopic images and 3d photography (film and digital)., the university of iowa libraries is the largest library system in iowa and 14th in materials expenditures among u.s. public research libraries. the university’s main library, hardin library for the health sciences, 5 branch libraries, and the law library contain more than 5 million volumes., northern illinois university (niu) is a public research university located in dekalb, illinois, united states, with satellite centers in hoffman estates, naperville, rockford, and oregon, illinois. it was originally founded as northern illinois state normal school on may 22, 1895, by illinois governor john p. altgeld as part of an expansion of the state's system for producing college educated teachers. douglas baker was named the university's twelfth president in may 2013. the university is composed of seven degree-granting colleges and has a student body of 25,000 with over 225,000 alumni. many of niu's programs are nationally accredited for meeting high standards of academic quality, including business, engineering, nursing, visual and performing arts, and all teacher certification programs. it is one of only two public universities in illinois that compete in the national collegiate athletic association at the highest levels of all sports, division i. niu's athletic teams are known as the huskies and compete in the mid-american conference., the george washington university libraries collects web sites produced by or affiliated with the george washington university, web sites from organizations with records held in the george washington university special collections research center, and web sites documenting local washington, d.c. history, politics, literature, and neighborhoods. faq and more info about our web archive program, montana state library supports the information needs of state agency employees, provides permanent public access to state publications, supports montana libraries in delivering quality library content and services, works to strengthen montana public libraries, and provides visually or physically handicapped montanans access to library resources., forsyth county public library, winston-salem, nc, art practical was founded in 2009 as an online arts publication based in san francisco. in 2020, art practical described itself as a visual arts publishing organization that was people-forward and equitable. the organization published with passion, rigor, and integrity through initiatives that included online arts discourse, podcasts, books, educational programs, and public events. as a platform, art practical embraced these many forms to connect diverse regional voices and amplify underrepresented perspectives from the bay area and broader west coast. art practical was founded by patricia maloney, who served as its director through 2016. michele carlson was director from 2016–2019. christina linden took up the directorship in the fall of 2019. the content published by art practical and daily serving, a sister publication that was published by art practical from 2013 through 2017 (when the two merged) represents hundreds of artists, galleries, arts institutions, and projects in the voices of over 450 writers and contributors. from 2014 to 2020, art practical was published through california college of the arts (cca) in san francisco., the industry documents library at the university of california, san francisco, this is the public’s library. we empower individuals to create their own futures, explore the universe of ideas, and connect with our community and the world., the mission of the evanston history center is to collect, preserve and interpret the rich history of the city of evanston and all its people through exhibits, educational programs, and research facilities., since 1987, ci has been working to improve human well-being through the care of nature. with the guiding principle that nature doesn't need people, but people need nature—for food, water, health and livelihoods—ci works with more than 1,000 partners around the world to ensure a healthy, more prosperous planet that supports the well-being of people. learn more about ci and the nature is speaking campaign http://natureisspeaking.org/, and follow ci's work on facebook, twitter and youtube., the san francisco public library system is dedicated to free and equal access to information, knowledge, independent learning, and the joys of reading for our diverse community. the government information center provides free access to united states, california, san francisco, and bay area regional agency government documents, and to materials on public policy, political science, public administration, and the law., henry clay frick (1849–1919), the coke and steel industrialist, philanthropist, and art collector, left his new york residence and his remarkable collection of western paintings, sculpture, and decorative arts to the public “for the purpose of establishing and maintaining a gallery of art, [and] of encouraging and developing the study of fine arts and of advancing the general knowledge of kindred subjects.” designed and built for mr. frick in 1913 and 1914 by thomas hastings of carrère and hastings, the mansion provides a grand domestic setting reminiscent of the noble houses of europe for the masterworks from the renaissance through the nineteenth century that it contains. renowned for its small, focused exhibitions and for its highly regarded concert series and lectures, the frick collection also operates the frick art reference library, founded by henry clay frick’s daughter, helen clay frick, located in an adjoining building at 10 east 71st street. both a research library and a photo archive, the frick art reference library is one of the world’s great repositories of documents for the study of western art. it has served the international art world for more than seventy-five years., iranian blogs web archive is the initiative originated at stanford university libraries and currently managed by new york university libraries. the goal is to preserve and ensure access to freely available selected social networking sites created by individuals, non-governmental and cultural organizations, political parties, etc. in persian, english and other languages., norfolk collegiate is an independent, coeducational day school enrolling students in pre-kindergarten through grade 12 on two campuses., university of nebraska-lincoln libraries web archives program is dedicated to collecting, preserving, and providing access to archived websites to document the university's records, activities, and accomplishments., the web archives of providence public library in providence, rhode island., utsa libraries special collections sustains the university's teaching, research, and outreach mission by preserving and providing access to valuable primary resources, and by creating digital collections for use by students and scholars at utsa and from around the world. through its web archiving program, special collections uses archive-it 1) to regularly capture and preserve web content created by utsa’s administrative units, academic programs, and student life groups as part of our university archives’ collecting mandate; and 2) to capture websites of organizations and web coverage of topical events that complement and/or supplement our physical collection development strategies. for more information, see our web archiving methods and collection guidelines at: http://lib.utsa.edu/files/default/special%20collections/utsawebarchivingmethodsandcollectionguidelines_2016-03.pdf, citizens against the landfill in hempstead (calh) was formed days after a group of citizens uncovered surreptitious plans for a landfill to be built on 723 rural acres, at a major highway intersection, close to a small texas town, and over a critical aquifer recharge area. it took seven years, over 200,000 volunteer hours, 43 garage sales, 4 fundraising dinners, and $2.2 million raised and spent on legal fees, but the landfill developer finally abandoned their second msw permit application on june 25, 2018, indiana university east, a regional campus of indiana university, offers residents of eastern indiana, western ohio and beyond a broad range of bachelor’s degrees, selected master’s degrees, and certificates through its traditional main campus in richmond, off-campus sites, and online program options., indiana university east challenges students to grow intellectually and personally in a supportive and scholarly environment where faculty teaching skills and participation in the creation and dissemination of new knowledge and artistic work enhance learning opportunities for all., indiana university east values a diversity of backgrounds, experiences, and intellectual perspectives among its faculty, staff, and students. the campus is dedicated to being a strong partner in enhancing the educational, cultural, and economic development of the region it serves through community and civic engagement., the university of arizona libraries are enterprising partners in advancing the university's priorities. we cultivate an environment that promotes inquiry, creative endeavor, scholarly communication and lifelong learning. our resources, services and expertise enrich the lives of arizonans, and contribute to an expanding global academic community., the jacob rader marcus center of the american jewish archives (aja), located on the historic cincinnati campus of hebrew union college-jewish institute of religion, was established in 1947 by renowned historian, dr. jacob rader marcus to collect, preserve, and make available for research, materials on the history of jews and jewish communities in the western hemisphere, including data of a political, economic, social, cultural, and religious nature. today the aja houses over ten million pages of documentation. it contains nearly 8,000 linear feet of archives, manuscripts, nearprint materials, photographs, audio and video tape, microfilm, and genealogical materials. the aja exists to preserve the continuity of jewish life and learning for future generations and aspires to serve scholars, educators, students, and researchers of all backgrounds and beliefs., the sisters of mercy are an international community of roman catholic women who dedicate their lives to the gospel of jesus and take vows of poverty, chastity, obedience and service. inspired by the life of jesus and by their founder catherine mcauley, the sisters envision a just world for people who are economically poor, sick and uneducated. they commit their lives to god and their resources to serve, advocate and pray for those in need around the world., with over 2,000 sisters in the americas, the sisters of mercy strive to make a difference in the lives of those in need in north, south and central america, the caribbean, guam and the philippines., with over 6,000 sisters of mercy around the world, they are part of a global network., the sisters of mercy serve with more than 3,100 mercy associates, several companions in mercy, close to 1,100 mercy volunteer corps alumni and thousands of co-workers in mercy-sponsored programs and institutions – all sharing in the mercy mission and following the example of catherine mcauley. they sponsor and operate more than 160 service organizations in collaboration with tens of thousands of committed co-ministers, staff and volunteers., the archives of ontario (ao) is one of canada’s largest provincial archives, and a premier source of information about the history of the land we now call ontario and its people. our collections document the decisions, functions and activities of the government of ontario as well as individuals, businesses, and organizations whose records carry enduring provincial significance. since the web sphere is a key venue for interactions between the province’s government and its citizens, the goal of the ao’s web archives collection is to preserve provincially significant web-based information resources and make them available for current and future generations. we began collecting in early 2021., la county library was established in 1912 under authority of the county free library act. the library is a special fund department operating under the authority of the county board of supervisors. today it is one of the major libraries of our nation, and provides library service to over 3.5 million residents living in unincorporated areas and to residents of 49 of the 88 incorporated cities of los angeles county. the service area extends over 3,000 square miles., the american university in cairo web archive collects, preserves, and provides access to the internet presence of the university, and documents websites related to contemporary egypt and exploration of its past. maintained by the rare books and special collections library, the archive includes official and non-official websites for auc, as well as websites reflecting egypt's arts and culture, architecture, business, travel and leisure, politics (including the 2011 revolution), and society (such as religious and ethnic communities and gender issues)., the public record office of northern ireland (proni) is the official place of deposit for public records in northern ireland. since 2010 proni has recognised the value of websites produced by government departments and all public sector organisations, and has undertaken a web archiving programme to address this. proni does not attempt to collect all of northern ireland’s websites but using agreed criteria, selects those that it considers are of significance, have long-term research value and are of social, political, cultural, religious or economic significance and relevance to northern ireland., the david j. sencer cdc museum covid-19 web collection is an online archive focused on the experiences of people across the u.s. from coast to coast during the coronavirus pandemic. the collection places emphasis on the experiences of black people, indigenous people, and other people of color. we track the pandemic from the beginning of a national shutdown in hopes of containing the spread of the virus in march 2020 to the ongoing distribution of covid-19 vaccines in 2021. it also addresses special topics such as the impact of covid on arts and culture, sports leagues, the olympic games, and how the world plans to memorialize those we have lost to the virus. the collection finally explores the disproportionately negative impact of covid-19 on bipoc individuals from death rates to vaccinations. the web archive will be updated regularly with additional content., the national center for science and engineering statistics (ncses), formerly the division of science resources statistics, was established within the national science foundation by section 505 of the america competes reauthorization act of 2010. the name signals the central role of ncses in the collection, interpretation, analysis, and dissemination of objective data on the science and engineering enterprise., everglades explorer is a library, archive and research service with customized search engines. everglades explorer's mission is to provide easier location of quality and specific information, and improve quick access to data, publications and maps buried or scattered across the shallow and deep web. the portal also provides records, links and archives connecting directly to video, sound recordings, pamphlets, books, photos, art, curriculum material, government reports, theses and dissertations, scientific data sets, and more., everglades explorer makes use of :, 1) an open source discovery system (extensible catalog) collecting and housing thick metadata in marcxml and dublin core linking directly to diverse academic digital resources;, 2) the internet archive, collecting and linking searchers to everglades related documents, reports and other resources in .pdf and media formats, mostly harvested from government and non-government organizations(ngo)., 3) a targeted google api searching across thin everglades metadata and real-time content management system (cms) websites of partners, and other select organizations and government agencies., can't find something? have a suggestion for something to add? please contact us at perema@fiu.edu., freedom of the press foundation is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization dedicated to helping support and defend public-interest journalism focused on exposing mismanagement, corruption, and law-breaking in government. we work to preserve and strengthen the rights guaranteed to the press under the first amendment through crowdfunding, digital security and internet advocacy., freedom of the press foundation is built on the recognition that this kind of transparency journalism — from publishing the pentagon papers and exposing watergate, to uncovering the nsa’s warrantless wiretapping program and cia secret prisons — doesn’t just happen. it requires dogged work by journalists, and often, the courage of whistleblowers and others who work to ensure that the public actually learns what it has a right to know., the new school brings together the new school for social research, founded in 1919; parsons school of design, founded in 1896; and mannes college of music, founded in 1916 to form a progressive urban university serving over 10,000 students., these collections of global events have been created by the archive-it team in conjunction with curators and subject matter experts from institutions around the world., northwestern university is a private institution founded in 1851. the school has campuses in evanston, il, chicago, il, and doha, qatar. northwestern's approximately 190,000 alumni include leaders in government, law, science, education, medicine, and performing arts. the northwestern university libraries use archive-it to document online academic, administrative, research, athletic, public service, and social activities and reflect the evolving nature of the university's web presence. metadata is the language used in northwestern university libraries’ (nul) catalog, online tools, archives, and digital collections to describe and manage resources and enable their discovery and ongoing access by the scholarly community. nul acknowledges the reality that our metadata and practices reflect a white supremacist and discriminatory culture. for additional information and to submit suggestions, questions, or comments, see: https://libguides.northwestern.edu/c.php?g=1152430, the annenberg school for communication library archives (ascla) collects, describes, preserves, and makes available materials pertinent to the interdisciplinary field of communication and its history., the national library of medicine (nlm), the world's largest medical library and a component of the national institutes of health, collects, preserves, and makes available to the public information about health, medicine, and the biomedical sciences. to continue fulfilling this mission, nlm is collecting and archiving related web content, which also serves to document the histories of health and medicine. for questions about our web archiving program contact us at nlmwebcollecting@nlm.nih.gov., this site contains websites created and maintained by the united church of canada. many of the sites captured are part of a broader scope of records collected by the united church of canada archives., bucknell university is a highly selective, private and nonsectarian liberal arts institution located in lewisburg, pennsylvania. founded in 1846, bucknell university is co-educational and residential with an enrollment of 3,500 undergraduates and 150 graduates. the special collections/university archives partnership with archive-it will focus on capturing university and university-affiliated websites that are integral to the preservation of bucknell university’s historical record., the nettie lee benson latin american collection is one of the premier libraries in the world focused on latin america and latin@ studies. in partnership with the teresa lozano long institute for latin american studies (llilas), the benson collection is a global destination for research and study, featuring over a million volumes as well as a wealth of original manuscripts, photographs and various media related to mexico, central and south america, the caribbean and latina/latino presence in the united states., established in 1853, the university of melbourne is a public-spirited institution that makes distinctive contributions to society in research, learning and teaching and engagement. it’s consistently ranked among the leading universities in the world, with international rankings of world universities placing it as number 1 in australia and number 32 in the world (times higher education world university rankings 2017-2018)., harvard business school is a leading international research institution on the creation and development of prominent global industries. hbs’s baker library special collections is home to one of the world’s most comprehensive and diverse collections of business history and allows global scholars to follow the trails of business history across companies, industries, individuals and movements. additionally special collections’ hbs archives record the history of the harvard business school from its founding in 1908 to the current day. major components of the collection include the teaching files and research papers of hbs faculty as well as the official records of all administrative departments. through its web archiving efforts, special collections is committed to documenting the legacy of business and hbs in the digital age., description:, founded in 1870—with campuses located in columbus, lima, mansfield, marion, newark and wooster—the ohio state university is one of america's largest and most comprehensive institutions of higher education and medicine. its mission as a public, land grant, research, urban, and community engaged institution is dedicated to: creating and discovering knowledge to improve the well-being of our state, regional, national and global communities; educating students through a comprehensive array of distinguished academic programs; preparing a diverse student body to be leaders and engaged citizens; and fostering a culture of engagement and service., case western reserve university is located in cleveland's university circle, the 500-acre, park-like home of more than 40 cultural, medical, educational, religious, and social service institutions. the only independent research-oriented university in ohio, cwru has a student population over 10,000 and holds membership in the association of american universities, and is fully accredited by the higher learning commission of the north central association of colleges and schools and by several nationally recognized professional accrediting associations., philadelphia area consortium of special collections libraries (pacscl) members collaborate to make their collections broadly available. pacscl supports joint projects, promotes professional standards, and fosters the special collections community. pacscl member libraries hold rich collections of materials on national, regional, and local history; the natural and social sciences; world history, literature and religion; art and architecture; and business and industry., cape is a charter school located in camarillo, california. we focus on an open philosophy that helps foster global, independent, creative thinkers who feel confident in themselves, are willing to take risks, and work cooperatively. we do this by focusing on hands-on education; enabling pupils to become self-motivated, competent, and life-long learners, equipped for the challenges of the 21st century. we teach kindergarten through eighth grade and our archive-it group is made up of a few dedicated eighth grade students., we started this process with most of the class listening in on our first teleconference. the students that were interested talked with our teacher, mrs. kavon, and joined the group. we met once a week and decided on what topics we wanted to focus on. we have all enjoyed this opportunity to archive our current lives for future generations of teenagers like us., the center for research libraries (crl) is an international consortium of university, college, and independent research libraries. founded in 1949, crl supports original research and inspired teaching in the humanities, sciences, and social sciences by preserving and making available to scholars a wealth of rare and uncommon primary source materials from all world regions., crl's deep and diverse collections (https://www.crl.edu/collections) are shaped by specialists and experts at the major u.s. and canadian research universities, who work together to identify and preserve unique and uncommon documentation and evidence, to ensure its long-term integrity and accessibility to researchers worldwide., crl is based in chicago, illinois, and is governed by a board of directors (https://www.crl.edu/about/governance/board-directors) drawn from the library, research and higher education communities., earlham college is a small liberal arts college founded by the religious society of friends (quakers) in 1847. it is located in richmond, in., berea college special collections and archives, the idaho commission for libraries assists libraries to build the capacity to better serve their clientele and is the state library of idaho. the commission has been charged with the responsibility of establishing and maintaining a digital repository of state publications in a publicly accessible database in revised idaho code 33-2505. state publications are preserved and made available online at http://idahodocs.cdmhost.com., the mission of the connecticut state library is to preserve and make accessible connecticut’s history and heritage and to advance the development of library services statewide., caltech is a world-renowned and pioneering research and education institution dedicated to advancing science and engineering. the caltech web archive is a collection of websites of research groups, administrative units, student organizations, and individual faculty. we preserve these sites for continued access after they change or disappear from the web. please contact university archivist peter collopy at pcollopy@caltech.edu if you'd like to nominate a website for archiving., as the preeminent institution devoted to the art of the united states, the whitney museum of american art presents the full range of twentieth-century and contemporary american art, with a special focus on works by living artists. the whitney is dedicated to collecting, preserving, interpreting, and exhibiting american art, and its collection--arguably the finest holding of twentieth-century american art in the world--is the museum's key resource. the museum's signature exhibition, the biennial, is the country's leading survey of the most recent developments in american art., innovation has been a hallmark of the whitney since its beginnings. it was the first museum dedicated to the work of living american artists and the first new york museum to present a major exhibition of a video artist (nam june paik in 1982). such figures as jasper johns, cy twombly, and cindy sherman were given their first museum retrospectives by the whitney. the museum has consistently purchased works within the year they were created, often well before the artists became broadly recognized. the whitney was the first museum to take its exhibitions and programming beyond its walls by establishing corporate-funded branch facilities, and the first museum to undertake a program of collection-sharing (with the san jose museum of art) in order to increase access to its renowned collection., designed by architect renzo piano and situated between the high line and the hudson river, the whitney's new building vastly increases the museum’s exhibition and programming space, providing the first comprehensive view of its unsurpassed collection of modern and contemporary american art., the university of michigan library's mission is to support, enhance, and collaborate in the instructional, research, and service activities of the faculty, students, and staff, and contribute to the common good by collecting, organizing, preserving, communicating, and sharing the record of human knowledge. the materials in the university of michigan library web archives reflect our mission as we seek to preserve online resources in specific topical areas., the fundación juan march is an active, family-run cultural heritage institution created by the financier juan march ordinas in 1955 with the mission of promoting culture in spain, with no other commitment than the quality of its offerings and the benefit of the communities it serves. the foundation produces exhibitions as well as concert and lecture series. its headquarters in madrid houses a library devoted to contemporary spanish music and theater. it owns and operates the museo de arte abstracto español in cuenca and the museu fundación juan march in palma de mallorca. promotes scientific research through the instituto mixto carlos iii/juan march de ciencias sociales at the universidad carlos iii in madrid., oberlin is a four-year, highly selective liberal arts college and conservatory of music. founded in 1833 by a presbyterian minister and a missionary, it holds a distinguished place among american colleges and universities. it was the first college to grant bachelor's degrees to women in a coeducational environment and, historically, was a leader in the education of african americans. it is accredited by the north central association of colleges and schools, higher learning commission. the oberlin community is known for its academic and musical excellence and its commitment to social justice, sustainability, and diversity., the mission of the library-archives division of the wisconsin historical society is to acquire, preserve, and present records and information documenting the history of wisconsin comprehensively and aspects of north american history. as the state archives it holds the records and publications of wisconsin state and local governments. the library-archives division is also a major manuscript repository and serves as the american history library for the university of wisconsin-madison., the state archives and state library of north carolina, divisions within the department of natural and cultural resources, operate with legislative mandates to preserve state government information and make it accessible to the citizens of north carolina (g.s. 121-2, g.s. 125-11.5 - 11.13, g.s. 132-1b). the north carolina state government web site archives and access program helps fulfill these mandates by providing archiving, preservation, and access services for websites and social media content produced and maintained by north carolina state agencies., the austin seminary archives at the stitt library serves as the repository for the documentation of the seminary's administrative activities and educational programs, its publications, memorabilia, photographic records, and the occasional memoirs and personal papers of the seminary's faculty. in addition, the archives collects materials on the activities of the presbyterian church in texas, oklahoma, arkansas, and louisiana, encompassing all forms of the presbyterian and reformed traditions., the government information center (gic) within the delaware department of state helps citizens connect to their government via the internet., results for development (r4d) is a leading non-profit global development partner. we collaborate with change agents around the world — government officials, civil society leaders and social innovators — to create strong systems that support healthy, educated people. we help our partners move from knowing their goal to knowing how to reach it. we combine global expertise in health, education and nutrition with analytic rigor, practical support for decision-making and implementation and access to peer problem-solving networks. together with our partners, we build self-sustaining systems that serve everyone and deliver lasting results., with eight branches, memorial university libraries is one of atlantic canada’s largest university libraries. in addition to providing access to millions of physical books and digital access to e-books, journals, and other resources, the libraries house several specialized archives and collections, including the largest collection of published materials about newfoundland and labrador in the world in the centre for newfoundland studies. the libraries encourage innovation and excellence in memorial’s teaching, learning, and research, creative activity, and public engagement., elizabethtown college is an independent, residential, coeducational college in south-central lancaster county, pennsylvania. the college, established by the church of the brethren in 1899, offers a variety of programs at numerous award levels. the core curriculum emphasizes the arts, humanities and sciences., shakk, from revolt to war in syria : conflict, displacements, uncertainties understanding the upheavals that syria has experienced since 2011 is an epistemological, ethical and reflective challenge, as the researcher’s involvement has become almost inevitable. the shakk (“uncertainty” in arabic) project intends to take up these different challenges in a multidisciplinary and comparative perspective. associating the center for social sciences of religion (césor), the french institute for the near east (ifpo), the audiovisual department of the bibliothèque nationale de france (bnf) and the institute of research and study on the arab and muslim worlds (iremam) the team is composed of nine researchers – anthropologists, political scientists, historians and linguists – in addition to a research engineer, an arabist, a digital humanities specialist, and finally an archivist specialized in audiovisual technology. the pooling of scientific and technical skills is essential to carry out a project with many ambitions, read more here : https://shakk.hypotheses.org/abstract, the new york art resources consortium (nyarc) consists of the research libraries of three leading art museums in new york city: the brooklyn museum, the frick collection, and the museum of modern art. the nyarc web resources program archives curated collections of websites in areas which correspond to the scope and strengths of the print collections at each research library, as well as nyarc project websites and the institutional websites of the three museums.to nominate websites for inclusion in nyarc's collections, please email: webarchive[at]frick[dot]org, the university of wisconsin–river falls (uwrf) is a public liberal arts university located in river falls, wisconsin. the 226-acre campus is situated on the kinnickinnic river in the st. croix river valley. the university has 32 major buildings and two laboratory farms, and offers more than 40 undergraduate and graduate programs. founded in 1874, university of wisconsin-river falls is one of 13 comprehensive universities in the prestigious university of wisconsin system., kria is a community effort to gather and preserve the content around the citizen-driven icelandic constitutional reform process., in 2011, iceland rewrote its constitution using an historically open process. it reshaped the dialogue on how a population can use available technology, consensus building, and civic engagement when reinventing the governmental processes supporting the needs of their constituents. what resulted was a proposed constitution that was affirmed by a public referendum. while parliament has yet to ratify the proposal, the effort is still alive and well, and is gaining traction and interest globally., yet there’s a threat that this historically relevant process will disappear without documentation. bits and pieces of this whole process have been kept in a variety of formats and locations. with proper documentation, this process can be a valuable resource for generations to come. much of what went into making this proposed constitution a unique and relevant document can be preserved and made readily available to all. because it was the first crowdsourced national constitution in history, there hasn’t been a blueprint on how it should be cataloged… until now., this effort is a collaboration with the icelandic national archives, the university of washington, the university of iceland, the icelandic constitutional society, peacebuilding organization build up and the university college cork., built at the internet archive][archive-it, the leading web archiving service for collecting and accessing cultural heritage on the web]archive-it - web archiving services for libraries and archives[][home, explore, learn more, contact us, home, learn more about archive-it news/press meet the team publications, about archive-it, news/press, meet the team, publications, contact us]