[estimated new cases in 2022 1,918,030, % of all new cancer cases 100.0%, estimated deaths in 2022 609,360, % of all cancer deaths 100.0%, 5-year relative survival, new cases come from seer 12. deaths come from u.s. mortality. all races, both sexes. rates are age-adjusted. modeled trend lines were calculated from the underlying rates using the joinpoint trend analysis software., new cases are also referred to as incident cases in other publications. rates of new cases are also referred to as incidence rates., rate of new cases and deaths per 100,000: the rate of new cases of cancer of any site was 445.5 per 100,000 men and women per year. the death rate was 152.4 per 100,000 men and women per year. these rates are age-adjusted and based on 2015–2019 cases and deaths., lifetime risk of developing cancer: approximately 39.9 percent of men and women will be diagnosed with cancer of any site at some point during their lifetime, based on 2017–2019 data., prevalence of this cancer: in 2019, there were an estimated 16,627,948 people living with cancer of any site in the united states., relative survival is an estimate of the percentage of patients who would be expected to survive the effects of their cancer. it excludes the risk of dying from other causes. because survival statistics are based on large groups of people, they cannot be used to predict exactly what will happen to an individual patient. no two patients are entirely alike, and treatment and responses to treatment can vary greatly., 5-year relative survival, based on data from seer 17 2012–2018. gray figures represent those who have died from cancer of any site. green figures represent those who have survived 5 years or more., in 2022, it is estimated that there will be 1,918,030 new cases of cancer of any site and an estimated 609,360 people will die of this disease., overall cancer incidence rates are higher among men than women. among racial/ethnic groups, there are more new cases among african american men and white women and fewer new cases among asian/pacific islanders of both sexes. the rate of new cases of cancer of any site was 445.5 per 100,000 men and women per year based on 2015–2019 cases, age-adjusted., seer 22 2015–2019, age-adjusted, cancer of any site is most frequently diagnosed among people aged 65–74., median age at diagnosis, seer 22 2015–2019, all races, both sexes, death rates for cancer are higher among the middle-aged and elderly populations. the death rate was 152.4 per 100,000 men and women per year based on 2015–2019 deaths, age-adjusted., u.s. 2015–2019, age-adjusted, the percent of cancer of any site deaths is highest among people aged 65–74., median age at death, u.s. 2015–2019, all races, both sexes, keeping track of new cases, deaths, and survival over time (trends) can help scientists understand whether progress is being made and where additional research is needed to address challenges, such as improving screening or finding better treatments., using statistical models for analysis, age-adjusted rates for new cancer of any site cases have been falling on average 0.7% each year over 2010–2019. age-adjusted death rates have been falling on average 1.8% each year over 2010–2019. 5-year relative survival trends are shown below., new cases come from seer 8. deaths come from u.s. mortality. all races, both sexes. rates are age-adjusted. modeled trend lines were calculated from the underlying rates using the joinpoint trend analysis software., seer 8 5-year relative survival percent from 1975–2014, all races, both sexes. modeled trend lines were calculated from the underlying rates using the joinpoint survival model software., seer*explorer is an interactive website that provides easy access to a wide range of seer cancer statistics. it provides detailed statistics for a cancer site by gender, race, calendar year, age, and for a selected number of cancer sites, by stage and histology., here are some resources for learning more about cancer., all statistics in this report are based on statistics from seer and the centers for disease control and prevention's national center for health statistics. most can be found within seer*explorer., all material in this report is in the public domain and may be reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is appreciated., seer cancer stat facts: cancer of any site. national cancer institute. bethesda, md, https://seer.cancer.gov/statfacts/html/all.html, these stat facts focus on population statistics that are based on the u.s. population. because these statistics are based on large groups of people, they cannot be used to predict exactly what will happen to an individual patient. to see tailored statistics, browse seer*explorer. to see statistics for a specific state, go to the state cancer profiles., the statistics presented in these stat facts are based on the most recent data available, most of which can be found in seer*explorer. in some cases, different year spans may be used., estimates of new cases and deaths for 2022 are projections made by the american cancer society (acs), based on earlier reported data., cancer is a complex topic. there is a wide range of information available. these stat facts do not address causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, follow-up care, or decision making, although links are provided to information in many of these areas., seer is supported by the surveillance research program (srp) in nci's division of cancer control and population sciences (dccps). srp provides national leadership in the science of cancer surveillance as well as analytical tools and methodological expertise in collecting, analyzing, interpreting, and disseminating reliable population-based statistics., nih... turning discovery into health®][cancer stat facts: cancer of any site, statistics at a glance, at a glance, survival statistics, how many people survive 5 years or more after being diagnosed with cancer of any site?, new cases and deaths, how common is this cancer?, who gets this cancer?, who dies from this cancer?, trends in rates, changes over time, interactive statistics with seer*explorer, more about this cancer, more information, references, suggested citation, follow seer, contact information, more information, policies]cancer of any site — cancer stat facts[reports on cancer, 68.1%, rate of new cases and deaths per 100,000:, lifetime risk of developing cancer, prevalence of this cancer, did you know?, 68.1%, additional information, rate of new cases per 100,000 persons by race/ethnicity & sex: cancer of any site, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian/pacific islander, non-hispanic american indian/alaska native, hispanic, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian/pacific islander, non-hispanic american indian/alaska native, hispanic, percent of new cases by age group: cancer of any site, 66, death rate per 100,000 persons by race/ethnicity & sex: cancer of any site, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian/pacific islander, non-hispanic american indian/alaska native, hispanic, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian/pacific islander, non-hispanic american indian/alaska native, hispanic, percent of deaths by age group: cancer of any site, 72, new cases, deaths and 5-year relative survival, with seer*explorer, you can...][home, cancer statistics reports on cancer annual report to the nation on the status of cancer cancer stat facts cancer statistics review seer publications interactive tools, maps, & graphs cancer statistics explorer network cancer query systems understanding statistics did you know? video series defining cancer statistics glossary of statistical terms reports on cancer annual report to the nation on the status of cancer cancer stat facts cancer statistics review interactive tools, maps, & graphs cancer statistics explorer network cancer query systems understanding statistics did you know? video series defining cancer statistics glossary of statistical terms, reports on cancer annual report to the nation on the status of cancer cancer stat facts cancer statistics review seer publications, annual report to the nation on the status of cancer, cancer stat facts, cancer statistics review, seer publications, interactive tools, maps, & graphs cancer statistics explorer network cancer query systems, cancer statistics explorer network, cancer query systems, understanding statistics did you know? video series defining cancer statistics glossary of statistical terms, did you know? video series, defining cancer statistics, glossary of statistical terms, reports on cancer annual report to the nation on the status of cancer cancer stat facts cancer statistics review, annual report to the nation on the status of cancer, cancer stat facts, cancer statistics review, interactive tools, maps, & graphs cancer statistics explorer network cancer query systems, cancer statistics explorer network, cancer query systems, , understanding statistics did you know? video series defining cancer statistics glossary of statistical terms, did you know? video series, defining cancer statistics, glossary of statistical terms, seer data & software seer incidence database comparison of data products how to request the data documentation for data seer*stat database details variable and recode definitions u.s. datasets u.s. mortality u.s. populations standard populations seer linked databases statistical software seer*stat seer*prep methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics seer incidence database comparison of data products how to request the data documentation for data seer*stat database details variables and recode definitions u.s. datasets u.s. mortality u.s. populations standard populations seer linked databases statistical software seer*stat seer*prep methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics, seer incidence database comparison of data products how to request the data, comparison of data products, how to request the data, documentation for data seer*stat database details variable and recode definitions, seer*stat database details, variable and recode definitions, u.s. datasets u.s. mortality u.s. populations standard populations seer linked databases, u.s. mortality, u.s. populations, standard populations, seer linked databases, statistical software seer*stat seer*prep methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics, seer*stat, seer*prep, methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics, seer incidence database comparison of data products how to request the data, comparison of data products, how to request the data, documentation for data seer*stat database details variables and recode definitions, seer*stat database details, variables and recode definitions, u.s. datasets u.s. mortality u.s. populations standard populations seer linked databases, u.s. mortality, u.s. populations, standard populations, seer linked databases, statistical software seer*stat seer*prep methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics, seer*stat, seer*prep, methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics, registry operations reporting guidelines seer program coding manual hematopoietic project solid tumor rules tools & software glossary for registrars seer*rx - drug database seer abstracting tool seer data management system (seer*dms) questions & answers seer inquiry system ask a seer registrar data collection answers staging registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa) summary stage 2018 staging resources extent of disease 2018 training reporting guidelines seer program coding manual hematopoietic project solid tumor rules tools & software glossary for registrars seer*rx - drug database seer abstracting tool seer data management system (seer*dms) questions & answers seer inquiry system ask a seer registrar data collection answers staging registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa) summary stage 2018 staging resources extent of disease 2018 training, reporting guidelines seer program coding manual hematopoietic project solid tumor rules, seer program coding manual, hematopoietic project, solid tumor rules, tools & software glossary for registrars seer*rx - drug database seer abstracting tool seer data management system (seer*dms), glossary for registrars, seer*rx - drug database, seer abstracting tool, seer data management system (seer*dms), questions & answers seer inquiry system ask a seer registrar data collection answers, seer inquiry system, ask a seer registrar, data collection answers, staging registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa) summary stage 2018 staging resources extent of disease 2018, registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa), summary stage 2018, staging resources, extent of disease 2018, training, , reporting guidelines seer program coding manual hematopoietic project solid tumor rules, seer program coding manual, hematopoietic project, solid tumor rules, tools & software glossary for registrars seer*rx - drug database seer abstracting tool seer data management system (seer*dms), glossary for registrars, seer*rx - drug database, seer abstracting tool, seer data management system (seer*dms), questions & answers seer inquiry system ask a seer registrar data collection answers, seer inquiry system, ask a seer registrar, data collection answers, staging registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa) summary stage 2018 staging resources extent of disease 2018, registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa), summary stage 2018, staging resources, extent of disease 2018, training, news & events, about, home, cancer statistics, reports on cancer, cancer stat facts, cancer of any site — cancer stat facts, annual report to the nation, cancer stat facts, cancer statistics review archive, archive, preliminary incidence rates for 2017 preliminary estimates for 2017 february delay-adjustment validation datasets and archive, preliminary estimates for 2017, february delay-adjustment, validation, datasets and archive, seer publications monographs cancer patterns among asian and pacific islanders in the u.s., monographs, cancer patterns among asian and pacific islanders in the u.s., more about survival statistics, additional cancer of any site survival statistics in seer*explorer, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian / pacific islander, non-hispanic american / indian alaska native, hispanic, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian / pacific islander, non-hispanic american / indian alaska native, hispanic, create custom graphs and tables, download data and images, share links to results, learn more about cancer, more about risk factors for cancer, more about symptoms and diagnosis of cancer, more about treatment options for cancer, more about clinical trials, more about cancer prevention, , , contact seer, nci livehelp online chat, careers, sitemap, using this website, accessibility, disclaimer, foia, hhs vulnerability disclosure, privacy & security, reuse of graphics and text, website linking, u.s. department of health and human services, national institutes of health, national cancer institute, usa.gov]