[the american cancer society is here to support ukrainian patients with cancer, caregivers, and clinicians., whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here., you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early., whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home., our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research., what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life., we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better., prod, , cancer is a common disease, so it’s no surprise that many families have at least a few members who have had cancer., sometimes, certain types of cancer seem to run in some families. in some cases, this might be because family members share certain behaviors or exposures that increase cancer risk, such as such as smoking. cancer risk might also be affected by other factors, like obesity, that tend to run in some families., but in some cases the cancer is caused by an abnormal gene that is being passed along from generation to generation. although this is often referred to as inherited cancer, what is inherited is the abnormal gene that can lead to cancer, not the cancer itself. only about 5% to 10% of all cancers result directly from gene defects (called mutations) inherited from a parent. this information is about those cancers., cancer is a disease in which cells grow out of control. this happens because of changes in some of the genes inside cells. genes are pieces of dna that control how cells make the proteins the body needs to function, as well as how cells are kept in balance. your genes affect things such as hair color, eye color, and height. they can also affect your chance of getting certain diseases, such as cancer., nearly every cell in your body has all of the genes you were born with. although all cells have the same genes, different cells (or types of cells) may use different genes. for example, muscle cells use different genes than skin cells use. the genes that the cell doesn’t need are turned off and not used. the genes that the cell is using are activated or turned on., an abnormal change in a gene is called a mutation. mutations in a gene can affect how it functions. for example, a mutation might stop a gene from working. or it might keep a gene turned on all the time (even when it’s not needed). either way, these can cause problems inside the cell., gene mutations can be either inherited or acquired., many family cancer syndromes are caused by inherited mutations in tumor suppressor genes. these are genes that normally keep cells under control by slowing down how often they divide (to make new cells), repairing dna mistakes, or telling cells to die at the right time., you have 2 copies of most genes – one from each parent. when someone inherits an abnormal copy of a gene, their cells already start out with one mutation. often this is not a problem, as the other gene copy is still working. but if the other gene copy stops working (because of an acquired mutation, for example), the gene’s function can be lost altogether. when the gene that stops working is a tumor suppressor gene, cells can grow out of control, which can lead to cancer., a person born with an inherited mutation in a copy of a tumor suppressor gene would only have to acquire a mutation in the other copy of that gene for it not to work. this is more likely to happen than acquiring mutations in both copies of a gene, so this person would have a higher risk of cancer than someone born without a gene mutation., for more information about gene changes that can lead to cancer, see genes and cancer., it’s important to keep in mind that cancer is common. in fact, about 1 in 3 people in the united states will develop cancer during their lifetime, so it’s not uncommon to have many cancers in a family., when many cases of cancer occur in a family, it is most often due to chance or because family members have been exposed to a common risk factor, such as smoking., sometimes there might be an interaction between certain genes and exposures. for example, some people inherit gene changes that make it harder for their bodies to get rid of toxins in tobacco smoke. these people might be more likely to get cancer if they smoke than someone who does not have these gene changes., less often, cancers in a family are strongly linked to an inherited gene mutation that is part of a family cancer syndrome., certain things make it more likely that cancers in a family are caused by a family cancer syndrome, such as:, when trying to determine if cancer might run in your family, first gather some information. for each case of cancer, look at:, cancer in a close relative, like a parent or sibling (brother or sister), is more cause for concern than cancer in a more distant relative. even if the cancer was from a gene mutation, the chance of it passing on to you gets lower with more distant relatives., it’s also important to look at each side of the family separately. having 2 relatives with cancer is more concerning if they are on the same side of the family. for example, it’s more concerning if both relatives are your mother's brothers than if one was your father's brother and the other was your mother's brother., the type of cancer matters, too. it is more concerning if many relatives have the same type of cancer than if they have several different kinds of cancer. still, in some family cancer syndromes, a few types of cancer seem to go together. for example, breast cancer and ovarian cancer run together in families with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (hboc). colon and endometrial cancers tend to go together in lynch syndrome (also known as hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer, or hnpcc)., by the same token, more than one case of the same rare cancer is more worrisome than cases of a more common cancer. for some rare cancers, the risk of a family cancer syndrome is relatively high with even one case.  , the age of the person when the cancer was diagnosed is also important. for example, colon cancer usually is rare in people younger than 30. having close relatives under 30 with colon cancer could be a sign of an inherited cancer syndrome. on the other hand, prostate cancer is very common in elderly men, so if both your father and his brother were found to have prostate cancer when they were in their 80s, it is less likely to be due to an inherited gene change., certain kinds of benign (not cancer) tumors and medical conditions are sometimes also part of a family cancer syndrome. for example, people with the multiple endocrine neoplasia, type ii syndrome (men ii) have a high risk of a certain kind of thyroid cancer. they also may develop benign tumors of the parathyroid glands and can also get tumors in the adrenal glands called pheochromocytomas, which are usually benign., when many relatives have the same type of cancer, it’s important to note if the cancer could be related to a risk factor like smoking. for example, lung cancer is commonly caused by smoking, so several cases of lung cancer in a family of people who smoke a lot are more likely to be due to smoking than to an inherited gene change. , there are many family cancer syndromes. some of these are discussed briefly here as examples, but this is not a full list. for more information about a particular type of cancer and its genetic components, diagnosis, and treatment, please see our content on that specific type of cancer., in some families, many women develop breast cancer and/or ovarian cancer. often these cancers are found in women who are younger than the usual age these cancers are found, and some women might have more than one cancer (such as breast cancer in both breasts, or both breast and ovarian cancer). this is known as hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (hboc)., most often, hboc is caused by an inherited mutation in either the brca1 or brca2 gene. (some families have hboc based on cancer history, but don’t have mutations in either of these genes. scientists believe that there might also be other genes that can cause hboc.), the risk of breast and ovarian cancer is very high in women with mutations in either brca1 or brca2, but it tends to be higher with brca1 mutations. along with breast and ovarian cancer, this syndrome can also lead to fallopian tube cancer, primary peritoneal cancer, male breast cancer, pancreatic cancer, and prostate cancer, as well as some others. male breast cancer, pancreatic cancer, and prostate cancer can be seen with mutations in either gene, but are more common in people with brca2 mutations. in the us, mutations in the brca genes are more common in people of ashkenazi jewish descent than in the general population., women with a strong family history of breast cancer and/or ovarian cancer may choose to undergo genetic counseling to help estimate their risk for having a mutation in one of the brca genes. the genetics professional can estimate the risk based on a patient’s history of cancer and the history of cancer in their family. if they have a high risk, they might choose to be tested (see understanding  genetic testing for cancer). if a mutation is present, the woman has a high risk of developing breast cancer and ovarian cancer (as well as some other cancers). she can then consider steps to find cancer early and even lower her risk of getting cancer., because breast cancer is rare in men, men with this cancer are often offered genetic counseling and testing for brca mutations. although having a mutation is less likely to affect a man’s future health than it is a woman’s, it can affect his risk of some cancers, such as prostate and pancreatic cancer. it can also be helpful for a man’s close relatives to know that he has a mutation and that they might be at risk., if someone has a brca mutation, it means that their close relatives (parents, siblings, and children) have a 50% chance of having a mutation, too. they may wish to be tested for the mutation, or even without testing may wish to start screening for certain cancers early or take other precautions to lower their risk of cancer., hboc is not the only family cancer syndrome that can cause breast or ovarian cancer. for information about other genes and syndromes that raise the risk of these cancers, see  breast cancer and ovarian cancer., the most common inherited syndrome that increases a person’s risk for colon cancer is lynch syndrome, also called hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (hnpcc). people with this syndrome are at high risk of developing colorectal cancer. most of these cancers develop before they are 50., lynch syndrome also leads to a high risk of endometrial cancer (cancer in the lining of the uterus), as well as cancers of the ovary, stomach, small intestine, pancreas, kidney, brain, ureters (tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder), and bile duct., lynch syndrome can be caused by a mutation in any of several mismatch repair (mmr) genes, including mlh1, msh2, msh6, pms1, and pms2. these genes are normally involved in repairing damaged dna. when one of these genes isn’t working, cells can develop mistakes in their dna, which might lead to other gene mutations and eventually cancer., doctors and genetics professionals can check if lynch syndrome is likely based on your personal and family cancer history using certain criteria. these, known as the amsterdam criteria and the revised bethesda guidelines, are discussed in detail in genetic testing, screening, and prevention for people with a strong family history of colorectal cancer. mutations in the genes that cause lynch syndrome can then be tested for with genetic testing., for people who have colorectal or endometrial cancer, the tumor tissue can be tested for mmr gene changes, or for other changes that can be caused when one of these genes is faulty, which is known as microsatellite instability (or msi). having normal findings (no mmr gene changes or msi) implies that a person probably does not have lynch syndrome. but if one of these is present, the person may have lynch syndrome, and is referred for genetic counseling and possible testing. for more information about genetic testing, see genetics and cancer., someone who is known to carry a gene mutation linked to lynch syndrome may start screening for colorectal cancer when they are younger (such as during their early 20s), or take other steps to try to prevent cancer from starting (discussed in more detail in colorectal cancer). women with lynch syndrome may start screening for endometrial cancer or take other steps to try to prevent this cancer. these are discussed in more detail in endometrial cancer., if someone has lynch syndrome, it means that their close relatives (parents, siblings, and children) have a 50% chance of having a mutation, too. they may wish to be tested, or even without testing they may wish to start screening early for certain cancers or take other precautions to help lower their risk of cancer., li-fraumeni syndrome is a rare inherited syndrome that can lead to the development of a number of cancers, including sarcoma (such as osteosarcoma and soft-tissue sarcomas), leukemia, brain (central nervous system) cancers, cancer of the adrenal cortex and breast cancer. these cancers often develop when people are relatively young., people with li-fraumeni also can develop more than one cancer in their lifetime. they also seem to have a higher risk of getting cancer from radiation therapy, so doctors treating these patients might try to avoid giving them radiation when possible., this syndrome is most often caused by inherited mutations in the tp53 gene, which is a tumor suppressor gene. a normal tp53 gene makes a protein that helps stop abnormal cells from growing., li-fraumeni syndrome can also be caused by mutations in a tumor suppressor gene called chek2, which also normally helps stop cells with dna damage from growing., if someone has li-fraumeni syndrome, their close relatives (especially children) have an increased chance of having a mutation, too. they may wish to be tested, or even without testing they may wish to start screening for certain cancers early or take other precautions to help lower their risk of cancer., people with a strong family history of cancer may want to learn their genetic makeup. this may help the person or other family members plan their health care for the future. since inherited mutations affect all cells of a person’s body, they can often be found by genetic testing done on blood or saliva (spit) samples. still, genetic testing is not helpful for everyone, so it’s important to speak with a genetic counselor first to find out if testing might be right for you. for more information, see understanding genetic testing for cancer., you can learn more about the family cancer syndromes listed above, along with other inherited syndromes and gene mutations that might affect a person's risk for cancer, by reading:, genetic counseling and testing for breast cancer risk: hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (hboc), brca1 and brca2 mutations, and other specific gene mutations, genetic testing, screening, and prevention for people with a strong family history of colorectal cancer: lynch syndrome, familial adenomatous polyposis (fap), and other specific gene mutations, genetic counseling and testing for people at high risk of melanoma: specific gene mutations, ovarian cancer risk factors: hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (hboc), lynch syndrome, peutz-jeghers syndrome, mutyh-associated polyposis, brca1 and brca2 mutations, and other specific gene mutations, , the american cancer society medical and editorial content team, our team is made up of doctors and oncology certified nurses with deep knowledge of cancer care as well as journalists, editors, and translators with extensive experience in medical writing., along with the american cancer society, other sources of information and support include:, national cancer institute toll-free number: 1-800-4-cancer (1-800-422-6237) website: www.cancer.gov, provides accurate, up-to-date information on a variety of cancer-related topics such as finding support, financial assistance and other resources; coping with cancer; cancer genetics, etc (click the “cancer topics” tab on the home page). also has an online cancer genetics services directory to identify professionals who provide services related to cancer genetics (cancer risk assessment, genetic counseling, genetic susceptibility testing, and others). , national society of genetic counselors (nsgc) telephone: 1-312-321-6834 website: www.nsgc.org, offers a "consumer information" link with the following:, *inclusion on this list does not imply endorsement by the american cancer society., hisada m, garber je, fung cy, fraumeni jf jr, li fp. multiple primary cancers in families with li-fraumeni syndrome. j natl cancer inst. 1998;90:606-611., medlineplus. national library of medicine (us). multiple endocrine neoplasia (men) ii. 2014. accessed at www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000399.htm on june 21, 2016., national cancer institute. genetic testing for hereditary cancer syndromes. 2013. accessed at www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/genetic-testing-fact-sheet on june 21, 2016., national cancer institute. physician data query (pdq). cancer genetics overview. 2016. accessed at www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/overview-pdq on june 21, 2016., national cancer institute. physician data query (pdq). genetics of breast and ovarian cancer. 2016. accessed at www.cancer.gov/types/breast/hp/breast-ovarian-genetics-pdq on june 21, 2016., national cancer institute. physician data query (pdq). genetics of colorectal cancer. 2016. accessed at www.cancer.gov/types/colorectal/hp/colorectal-genetics-pdq on june 21, 2016., schneider k, zelley k, nichols ke, garber j. li-fraumeni syndrome. 2013. in: genereviews™ [internet]. accessed at www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/nbk1311/ on june 21, 2016., schrader ka, sharaf r, alanee s, offit k. genetic factors: hereditary cancer predisposition syndromes. in: niederhuber je, armitage jo, doroshow jh, kastan mb, tepper je, eds. abeloff’s clinical oncology. 5th ed. philadelphia, pa: elsevier; 2014; 169-187., along with the american cancer society, other sources of information and support include:, national cancer institute toll-free number: 1-800-4-cancer (1-800-422-6237) website: www.cancer.gov, provides accurate, up-to-date information on a variety of cancer-related topics such as finding support, financial assistance and other resources; coping with cancer; cancer genetics, etc (click the “cancer topics” tab on the home page). also has an online cancer genetics services directory to identify professionals who provide services related to cancer genetics (cancer risk assessment, genetic counseling, genetic susceptibility testing, and others). , national society of genetic counselors (nsgc) telephone: 1-312-321-6834 website: www.nsgc.org, offers a "consumer information" link with the following:, *inclusion on this list does not imply endorsement by the american cancer society., hisada m, garber je, fung cy, fraumeni jf jr, li fp. multiple primary cancers in families with li-fraumeni syndrome. j natl cancer inst. 1998;90:606-611., medlineplus. national library of medicine (us). multiple endocrine neoplasia (men) ii. 2014. accessed at www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000399.htm on june 21, 2016., national cancer institute. genetic testing for hereditary cancer syndromes. 2013. accessed at www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/genetic-testing-fact-sheet on june 21, 2016., national cancer institute. physician data query (pdq). cancer genetics overview. 2016. accessed at www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/overview-pdq on june 21, 2016., national cancer institute. physician data query (pdq). genetics of breast and ovarian cancer. 2016. accessed at www.cancer.gov/types/breast/hp/breast-ovarian-genetics-pdq on june 21, 2016., national cancer institute. physician data query (pdq). genetics of colorectal cancer. 2016. accessed at www.cancer.gov/types/colorectal/hp/colorectal-genetics-pdq on june 21, 2016., schneider k, zelley k, nichols ke, garber j. li-fraumeni syndrome. 2013. in: genereviews™ [internet]. accessed at www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/nbk1311/ on june 21, 2016., schrader ka, sharaf r, alanee s, offit k. genetic factors: hereditary cancer predisposition syndromes. in: niederhuber je, armitage jo, doroshow jh, kastan mb, tepper je, eds. abeloff’s clinical oncology. 5th ed. philadelphia, pa: elsevier; 2014; 169-187., last revised: august 5, 2020, american cancer society medical information is copyrighted material. for reprint requests, please see our content usage policy., imagine a world free from cancer. help make it a reality., donate, cancer information, answers, and hope. available every minute of every day., © 2022 american cancer society, inc. all rights reserved. the american cancer society is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. tax id number: 13-1788491. cancer.org is provided courtesy of the leo and gloria rosen family.][more topics, insights and inspiration, featured resources, related topics, featured resources, navigating treatment, top story, more cancer news, top story, life-saving research, interactive & multimedia, more ways to get involved, our passion, partners spotlight, partners against cancer, partners spotlight, get to know us, making a difference, genetics and cancer, family cancer syndromes, genes, mutations, and cancer, how do you recognize a family cancer syndrome?, examples of family cancer syndromes, hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (hboc) syndrome, lynch syndrome (hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer), li-fraumeni syndrome, genetic counseling and testing, other common family cancer syndromes, 800.227.2345]family cancer syndromes[mutation, inherited gene mutation, acquired (somatic) mutation, family cancer syndrome, hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (hboc) syndrome, lynch syndrome (hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer), imagine a world free from cancer., , ][español, more languages, cancer a-z whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here. explore cancer a-z breast cancer colon and rectal cancer lung cancer prostate cancer skin cancer all cancer types more topics cancer basics what causes cancer? cancer glossary insights and inspiration cancer news stories of hope acs bookstore for professionals, explore cancer a-z, breast cancer, colon and rectal cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, skin cancer, all cancer types, cancer basics, what causes cancer?, cancer glossary, cancer news, stories of hope, acs bookstore, for professionals, stay healthy you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early. explore stay healthy find cancer early stay away from tobacco eat healthy & get active be safe in the sun protect against hpv cancer facts featured resources screening guidelines by age sun safety videos nutrition & activity quiz bmi calculator videos, quizzes, & calculators healthy recipes related topics learn about carcinogens genetics & cancer alcohol use & cancer signs & symptoms of cancer cancer prevention news, explore stay healthy, find cancer early, stay away from tobacco, eat healthy & get active, be safe in the sun, protect against hpv, cancer facts, screening guidelines by age, sun safety videos, nutrition & activity quiz, bmi calculator, videos, quizzes, & calculators, healthy recipes, learn about carcinogens, genetics & cancer, alcohol use & cancer, signs & symptoms of cancer, cancer prevention news, treatment & support whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home. explore treatment & support understanding your diagnosis treatment & side effects survivorship financial & insurance matters children & cancer for caregivers & family nearing the end of life featured resources patient programs and services clinical trials when natural disasters strike choosing your treatment team understanding recurrence navigating treatment personal health manager caregiver resource guide treatment videos survivorship care plans, explore treatment & support, understanding your diagnosis, treatment & side effects, survivorship, financial & insurance matters, children & cancer, for caregivers & family, nearing the end of life, patient programs and services, clinical trials, when natural disasters strike, choosing your treatment team, understanding recurrence, personal health manager, caregiver resource guide, treatment videos, survivorship care plans, news top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research. explore news latest news cancer updates living well acs research stories of hope more cancer news cancer facts and statistics research highlights acs press room top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak, explore news, latest news, cancer updates, living well, acs research, stories of hope, cancer facts and statistics, research highlights, acs press room, our research what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life. explore our research acs research highlights acs research news cancer facts & figures cps-3: cancer prevention study-3 currently funded cancer research apply for a grant life-saving research research we fund surveillance & health equity science population science our research team interactive & multimedia cancer statistics center tobacco atlas cancer atlas acs research podcasts, explore our research, acs research highlights, acs research news, cancer facts & figures, cps-3: cancer prevention study-3, currently funded cancer research, apply for a grant, research we fund, surveillance & health equity science, population science, our research team, cancer statistics center, tobacco atlas, cancer atlas, acs research podcasts, get involved we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives. explore get involved volunteer donate fundraise sign up for email more ways to get involved plan a gift shop to save lives celebrate a loved one be an advocate our passion volunteer to help acs in your community cancer news more ways to give, explore get involved, volunteer, donate, fundraise, sign up for email, plan a gift, shop to save lives, celebrate a loved one, be an advocate, volunteer to help, acs in your community, cancer news, more ways to give, our partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer. explore our partners become a partner partner promotions employee engagement partners against cancer corporate partners ceo's against cancer sports alliances brand ambassadors community partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, explore our partners, become a partner, partner promotions, employee engagement, corporate partners, ceo's against cancer, sports alliances, brand ambassadors, community partners, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, about us at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better. explore about us who we are what we do where we help sign up for email get to know us our history global cancer programs financials & governance multicultural communities making a difference careers at acs our leadership acs news room, explore about us, who we are, what we do, where we help, sign up for email, our history, global cancer programs, financials & governance, multicultural communities, careers at acs, our leadership, acs news room, genes and cancer, family cancer syndromes, genetic testing for cancer risk, cancer a-z, what causes cancer?, genetics and cancer, an inherited gene mutation is present in the egg or sperm cell that formed the child. when the egg is fertilized by the sperm, it creates one cell that then divides many times and eventually becomes a baby. since all the cells come from this first cell, this kind of mutation is in every cell (including eggs or sperm) and so can be passed on to the next generation., an acquired (somatic) mutation does not come from a parent, but is acquired some time later. it starts in one cell, and then is passed on to any new cells that are created from that cell. this kind of mutation is not present in egg or sperm cells, so it is not passed on to the next generation. acquired mutations are much more common than inherited mutations. most cancers are caused by acquired mutations., many cases of the same type of cancer (especially if it is an uncommon or rare type of cancer), cancers occurring at younger ages than usual (like colon cancer in a 20-year-old), more than one type of cancer in a single person (like a woman with both breast and ovarian cancer), cancers occurring in both of a pair of organs (like both eyes, both kidneys, or both breasts), more than one childhood cancer in siblings (like sarcoma in both a brother and a sister), cancer occurring in the sex not usually affected (like breast cancer in a man), cancer occurring in many generations (like in a grandfather, father, and son), who has the cancer? how are you related? which side of the family are they on (mother’s or father’s)?, what type of cancer is it? is it rare?, how old was this relative when they were diagnosed?, did this person get more than one type of cancer?, did they have any known risk factors for their type of cancer (such as smoking for lung cancer)?, written by, additional resources, references, "making sense of your genes" – a 24-page guide to genetic counseling (may be downloaded and printed), directory of genetic counselors – may be searched by your area, "five questions to ask before considering genetic testing" (may be downloaded and printed), guide on collecting family history – a helpful tool in determining possible genetic risks, faqs on genetic testing and genetic counselors, "making sense of your genes" – a 24-page guide to genetic counseling (may be downloaded and printed), directory of genetic counselors – may be searched by your area, "five questions to ask before considering genetic testing" (may be downloaded and printed), guide on collecting family history – a helpful tool in determining possible genetic risks, faqs on genetic testing and genetic counselors, cancer prevention & detection, cancer basics, signs & symptoms of cancer, treatments & side effects, acs research highlights, cancer facts & statistics, news and stories, glossary, for health care professionals, lodging during treatment, rides to treatment, breast cancer support, hair loss and mastectomy products, connecting cancer survivors, making strides against breast cancer walks, relay for life events, american cancer society on campus, coaches vs. cancer, galas, balls & parties, ways to give, memorial giving, planned giving, philanthropy, donate a car, contact us, local offices, employment, information for suppliers, report fraud or abuse, sign up for email, our research, cancer action network, global health, policies, our volunteers, bookstore, cancer atlas, cancer statistics center, acs news room, volunteer community, help, site map, privacy policy, accessibility, terms of use, state fundraising notices, site comments]