[the american cancer society is here to support ukrainian patients with cancer, caregivers, and clinicians., whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here., you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early., whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home., our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research., what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life., we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better., prod, , cancer affects 1 in 3 people in the united states. chances are that you or someone you know has been affected by cancer. here is some information to help you better understand what cancer is., you are made up of trillions of cells that over your lifetime normally grow and divide as needed. when cells are abnormal or get old, they usually die. cancer starts when something goes wrong in this process and your cells keep making new cells and the old or abnormal ones don't die when they should. as the cancer cells grow out of control, they can crowd out normal cells. this makes it hard for your body to work the way it should., for many people, cancer can be treated successfully. in fact, more people than ever before lead full lives after cancer treatment., there are many types of cancer. cancer can develop anywhere in the body and is named for the part of the body where it started. for instance, breast cancer that starts in the breast is still called breast cancer even if it spreads (metastasizes) to other parts of the body., there are two main categories of cancer:, these cancers are alike in some ways, but can be different in the ways they grow, spread, and respond to treatment. some cancers grow and spread fast. others grow more slowly. some are more likely to spread to other parts of the body. others tend to stay where they started., some types of cancer are best treated with surgery; others respond better to drugs such as chemotherapy. often 2 or more treatments are used to get the best results., a tumor is a lump or growth. some lumps are cancer, but many are not., what makes cancer different is that it can spread to other parts of the body while benign tumors do not. cancer cells can break away from the site where the cancer started. these cells can travel to other parts of the body and end up in the lymph nodes or other body organs causing problems with normal functions., cancer cells develop because of multiple changes in their genes. these changes can have many possible causes. lifestyle habits, genes you get from your parents, and being exposed to cancer-causing agents in the environment can all play a role. many times, there is no obvious cause., when a cancer is found, tests are done to see how big the cancer is and whether it has spread from where it started. this is called the cancer's stage., a lower stage (such as a stage 1 or 2) means that the cancer has not spread very much. a higher number (such as a stage 3 or 4) means it has spread more. stage 4 is the highest stage., the stage of the cancer is very important in choosing the best treatment for a person. ask your doctor about your cancer's stage and what it means for you., cancer can spread from where it started (the primary site) to other parts of the body., when cancer cells break away from a tumor, they can travel to other areas of the body through either the bloodstream or the lymph system. cancer cells that travel through the bloodstream may to reach distant organs. if they travel through the lymph system, the cancer cells may end up in lymph nodes. either way, most of the escaped cancer cells die or are killed before they can start growing somewhere else. but one or two might settle in a new area, begin to grow, and form new tumors. this spread of cancer to a new part of the body is called metastasis., cells that make up a metastasis are the same type of cells as in the primary cancer. they are not a new type of cancer. for instance, breast cancer cells that spread to the lungs are still breast cancer and not lung cancer. and colon cancer cells that spread to the liver are still colon cancer., in order for cancer cells to spread to new parts of the body, they have to go through several changes. they first have to become able to break away from the original tumor and then attach to the outside wall of a lymph vessel or blood vessel. then they must move through the vessel wall to flow with the blood or lymph to a new organ or lymph node., , the american cancer society medical and editorial content team, our team is made up of doctors and oncology certified nurses with deep knowledge of cancer care as well as journalists, editors, and translators with extensive experience in medical writing., eggert j. (ed). cancer basics. (2nd ed.). pittsburgh, pa: oncology nursing society; 2017. , national cancer institute. cancer staging. cancer.gov. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/understanding/what-is-cancer. updated march 9, 2015. accessed november 6, 2020.,  national cancer institute. what is cancer? cancer.gov. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/understanding/what-is-cancer. updated february 9, 2015. accessed november 6, 2020. , eggert j. (ed). cancer basics. (2nd ed.). pittsburgh, pa: oncology nursing society; 2017. , national cancer institute. cancer staging. cancer.gov. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/understanding/what-is-cancer. updated march 9, 2015. accessed november 6, 2020.,  national cancer institute. what is cancer? cancer.gov. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/understanding/what-is-cancer. updated february 9, 2015. accessed november 6, 2020. , last revised: february 14, 2022, american cancer society medical information is copyrighted material. for reprint requests, please see our content usage policy., imagine a world free from cancer. help make it a reality., donate, cancer information, answers, and hope. available every minute of every day., © 2022 american cancer society, inc. all rights reserved. the american cancer society is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. tax id number: 13-1788491. cancer.org is provided courtesy of the leo and gloria rosen family.][more topics, insights and inspiration, featured resources, related topics, featured resources, navigating treatment, top story, more cancer news, top story, life-saving research, interactive & multimedia, more ways to get involved, our passion, partners spotlight, partners against cancer, partners spotlight, get to know us, making a difference, understanding your diagnosis, what is cancer?, cancer is more than just one disease, what is a tumor?, what causes cancer?, what is the cancer stage?, how does cancer spread?, 800.227.2345]what is cancer? | cancer basics | american cancer society[hematologic (blood) cancers, s, olid tumor cancers, benign, malignant, metastasis, imagine a world free from cancer., , ][español, more languages, cancer a-z whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here. explore cancer a-z breast cancer colon and rectal cancer lung cancer prostate cancer skin cancer all cancer types more topics cancer basics what causes cancer? cancer glossary insights and inspiration cancer news stories of hope acs bookstore for professionals, explore cancer a-z, breast cancer, colon and rectal cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, skin cancer, all cancer types, cancer basics, what causes cancer?, cancer glossary, cancer news, stories of hope, acs bookstore, for professionals, stay healthy you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early. explore stay healthy find cancer early stay away from tobacco eat healthy & get active be safe in the sun protect against hpv cancer facts featured resources screening guidelines by age sun safety videos nutrition & activity quiz bmi calculator videos, quizzes, & calculators healthy recipes related topics learn about carcinogens genetics & cancer alcohol use & cancer signs & symptoms of cancer cancer prevention news, explore stay healthy, find cancer early, stay away from tobacco, eat healthy & get active, be safe in the sun, protect against hpv, cancer facts, screening guidelines by age, sun safety videos, nutrition & activity quiz, bmi calculator, videos, quizzes, & calculators, healthy recipes, learn about carcinogens, genetics & cancer, alcohol use & cancer, signs & symptoms of cancer, cancer prevention news, treatment & support whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home. explore treatment & support understanding your diagnosis treatment & side effects survivorship financial & insurance matters children & cancer for caregivers & family nearing the end of life featured resources patient programs and services clinical trials when natural disasters strike choosing your treatment team understanding recurrence navigating treatment personal health manager caregiver resource guide treatment videos survivorship care plans, explore treatment & support, understanding your diagnosis, treatment & side effects, survivorship, financial & insurance matters, children & cancer, for caregivers & family, nearing the end of life, patient programs and services, clinical trials, when natural disasters strike, choosing your treatment team, understanding recurrence, personal health manager, caregiver resource guide, treatment videos, survivorship care plans, news top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research. explore news latest news cancer updates living well acs research stories of hope more cancer news cancer facts and statistics research highlights acs press room top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak, explore news, latest news, cancer updates, living well, acs research, stories of hope, cancer facts and statistics, research highlights, acs press room, our research what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life. explore our research acs research highlights acs research news cancer facts & figures cps-3: cancer prevention study-3 currently funded cancer research apply for a grant life-saving research research we fund surveillance & health equity science population science our research team interactive & multimedia cancer statistics center tobacco atlas cancer atlas acs research podcasts, explore our research, acs research highlights, acs research news, cancer facts & figures, cps-3: cancer prevention study-3, currently funded cancer research, apply for a grant, research we fund, surveillance & health equity science, population science, our research team, cancer statistics center, tobacco atlas, cancer atlas, acs research podcasts, get involved we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives. explore get involved volunteer donate fundraise sign up for email more ways to get involved plan a gift shop to save lives celebrate a loved one be an advocate our passion volunteer to help acs in your community cancer news more ways to give, explore get involved, volunteer, donate, fundraise, sign up for email, plan a gift, shop to save lives, celebrate a loved one, be an advocate, volunteer to help, acs in your community, cancer news, more ways to give, our partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer. explore our partners become a partner partner promotions employee engagement partners against cancer corporate partners ceo's against cancer sports alliances brand ambassadors community partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, explore our partners, become a partner, partner promotions, employee engagement, corporate partners, ceo's against cancer, sports alliances, brand ambassadors, community partners, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, about us at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better. explore about us who we are what we do where we help sign up for email get to know us our history global cancer programs financials & governance multicultural communities making a difference careers at acs our leadership acs news room, explore about us, who we are, what we do, where we help, sign up for email, our history, global cancer programs, financials & governance, multicultural communities, careers at acs, our leadership, acs news room, what is cancer?, signs and symptoms of cancer, exams and tests for cancer, lymph nodes and cancer, cancer staging, advanced and metastatic cancer, can cancer be cured?, telling others about your cancer, finding cancer information on the internet, the history of cancer, treatment & support, understanding your diagnosis, hematologic (blood) cancers are cancers of the blood cells, including leukemia, lymphoma, and multiple myeloma., solid tumor cancers are cancers of any of the other body organs or tissues. the most common solid tumors are breast, prostate, lung, and colorectal cancers., lumps that are not cancer are called benign, lumps that are cancer are called malignant, written by, references, cancer prevention & detection, cancer basics, signs & symptoms of cancer, treatments & side effects, acs research highlights, cancer facts & statistics, news and stories, glossary, for health care professionals, lodging during treatment, rides to treatment, breast cancer support, hair loss and mastectomy products, connecting cancer survivors, making strides against breast cancer walks, relay for life events, american cancer society on campus, coaches vs. cancer, galas, balls & parties, ways to give, memorial giving, planned giving, philanthropy, donate a car, contact us, local offices, employment, information for suppliers, report fraud or abuse, sign up for email, our research, cancer action network, global health, policies, our volunteers, bookstore, cancer atlas, cancer statistics center, acs news room, volunteer community, help, site map, privacy policy, accessibility, terms of use, state fundraising notices, site comments]