[find out about covid-19, covid-19 vaccines, and mayo clinic patient and visitor updates., featured conditions, cancer refers to any one of a large number of diseases characterized by the development of abnormal cells that divide uncontrollably and have the ability to infiltrate and destroy normal body tissue. cancer often has the ability to spread throughout your body., cancer is the second-leading cause of death in the world. but survival rates are improving for many types of cancer, thanks to improvements in cancer screening, treatment and prevention., signs and symptoms caused by cancer will vary depending on what part of the body is affected., some general signs and symptoms associated with, but not specific to, cancer, include:, make an appointment with your doctor if you have any persistent signs or symptoms that concern you., if you don't have any signs or symptoms, but are worried about your risk of cancer, discuss your concerns with your doctor. ask about which cancer screening tests and procedures are appropriate for you., cancer is caused by changes (mutations) to the dna within cells. the dna inside a cell is packaged into a large number of individual genes, each of which contains a set of instructions telling the cell what functions to perform, as well as how to grow and divide. errors in the instructions can cause the cell to stop its normal function and may allow a cell to become cancerous., a gene mutation can instruct a healthy cell to:, these mutations are the most common ones found in cancer. but many other gene mutations can contribute to causing cancer., gene mutations can occur for several reasons, for instance:, gene mutations occur frequently during normal cell growth. however, cells contain a mechanism that recognizes when a mistake occurs and repairs the mistake. occasionally, a mistake is missed. this could cause a cell to become cancerous., the gene mutations you're born with and those that you acquire throughout your life work together to cause cancer., for instance, if you've inherited a genetic mutation that predisposes you to cancer, that doesn't mean you're certain to get cancer. instead, you may need one or more other gene mutations to cause cancer. your inherited gene mutation could make you more likely than other people to develop cancer when exposed to a certain cancer-causing substance., it's not clear just how many mutations must accumulate for cancer to form. it's likely that this varies among cancer types., while doctors have an idea of what may increase your risk of cancer, the majority of cancers occur in people who don't have any known risk factors. factors known to increase your risk of cancer include:, cancer can take decades to develop. that's why most people diagnosed with cancer are 65 or older. while it's more common in older adults, cancer isn't exclusively an adult disease — cancer can be diagnosed at any age., certain lifestyle choices are known to increase your risk of cancer. smoking, drinking more than one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men, excessive exposure to the sun or frequent blistering sunburns, being obese, and having unsafe sex can contribute to cancer., you can change these habits to lower your risk of cancer — though some habits are easier to change than others., only a small portion of cancers are due to an inherited condition. if cancer is common in your family, it's possible that mutations are being passed from one generation to the next. you might be a candidate for genetic testing to see whether you have inherited mutations that might increase your risk of certain cancers. keep in mind that having an inherited genetic mutation doesn't necessarily mean you'll get cancer., some chronic health conditions, such as ulcerative colitis, can markedly increase your risk of developing certain cancers. talk to your doctor about your risk., the environment around you may contain harmful chemicals that can increase your risk of cancer. even if you don't smoke, you might inhale secondhand smoke if you go where people are smoking or if you live with someone who smokes. chemicals in your home or workplace, such as asbestos and benzene, also are associated with an increased risk of cancer., cancer and its treatment can cause several complications, including:, doctors have identified several ways to reduce your risk of cancer, such as:, , cancer care at mayo clinic, mayo clinic does not endorse companies or products. advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission., check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from mayo clinic press., any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy linked below., , a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.org," "mayo clinic healthy living," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research., , this site complies with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here., ][covid-19: advice, updates and vaccine options, cancer, overview, products & services, symptoms, when to see a doctor, causes, what do gene mutations do?, what causes gene mutations?, how do gene mutations interact with each other?, more information, risk factors, your age, your habits, your family history, your health conditions, your environment, complications, prevention, , related, associated procedures, news from mayo clinic, products & services, cancer, advertisement, mayo clinic press]cancer - symptoms and causes - mayo clinic[featured conditions, allow rapid growth., fail to stop uncontrolled cell growth., make mistakes when repairing dna errors., gene mutations you're born with., gene mutations that occur after birth., pain., fatigue., difficulty breathing., nausea., diarrhea or constipation., weight loss., chemical changes in your body., brain and nervous system problems., unusual immune system reactions to cancer., cancer that spreads., cancer that returns., stop smoking., avoid excessive sun exposure., eat a healthy diet., exercise most days of the week., maintain a healthy weight., drink alcohol in moderation, if you choose to drink., schedule cancer screening exams., ask your doctor about immunizations., advertising & sponsorship, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices][request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, english español português العربية 简体中文, español, português, العربية, 简体中文, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, care at mayo clinic care at mayo clinic appointments locations patient & visitor guide international services medical departments & centers doctors & medical staff patient online services billing & insurance clinical trials international business collaborations about mayo clinic contact us, care at mayo clinic, appointments, locations, patient & visitor guide, international services, medical departments & centers, doctors & medical staff, patient online services, billing & insurance, clinical trials, international business collaborations, about mayo clinic, contact us, health information health information diseases & conditions a-z symptoms a-z tests & procedures a-z drugs & supplements a-z health books healthy living program mayo clinic health letter mayo clinic voice apps healthy lifestyle featured conditions brain tumor, breast cancer, colon cancer, congenital heart disease, heart arrhythmia. see more conditions., health information, diseases & conditions a-z, symptoms a-z, tests & procedures a-z, drugs & supplements a-z, health books, healthy living program, mayo clinic health letter, mayo clinic voice apps, healthy lifestyle, for medical professionals for medical professionals provider relations carelink online referrals continuing medical education mayo clinic laboratories askmayoexpert video center journals and publications, for medical professionals, provider relations, carelink online referrals, continuing medical education, mayo clinic laboratories, askmayoexpert, video center, journals and publications, research research research faculty laboratories core facilities centers & programs departments & divisions clinical trials institutional review board postdoctoral fellowships training grant programs, research, research faculty, laboratories, core facilities, centers & programs, departments & divisions, clinical trials, institutional review board, postdoctoral fellowships, training grant programs, college of medicine and science college of medicine and science mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences mayo clinic alix school of medicine mayo clinic school of continuous professional development mayo clinic school of graduate medical education mayo clinic school of health sciences, college of medicine and science, mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences, mayo clinic alix school of medicine, mayo clinic school of continuous professional development, mayo clinic school of graduate medical education, mayo clinic school of health sciences, giving to mayo clinic giving to mayo clinic give now philanthropy in action frequently asked questions contact us to give, giving to mayo clinic, give now, philanthropy in action, frequently asked questions, contact us to give, request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, twitter facebook pinterest youtube, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, assortment of pill aids from mayo clinic store, book: live younger longer, book: mayo clinic family health book, 5th edition, mayo clinic cancer center, newsletter: mayo clinic health letter — digital edition, fatigue, lump or area of thickening that can be felt under the skin, weight changes, including unintended loss or gain, skin changes, such as yellowing, darkening or redness of the skin, sores that won't heal, or changes to existing moles, changes in bowel or bladder habits, persistent cough or trouble breathing, difficulty swallowing, hoarseness, persistent indigestion or discomfort after eating, persistent, unexplained muscle or joint pain, persistent, unexplained fevers or night sweats, unexplained bleeding or bruising, allow rapid growth. a gene mutation can tell a cell to grow and divide more rapidly. this creates many new cells that all have that same mutation., fail to stop uncontrolled cell growth. normal cells know when to stop growing so that you have just the right number of each type of cell. cancer cells lose the controls (tumor suppressor genes) that tell them when to stop growing. a mutation in a tumor suppressor gene allows cancer cells to continue growing and accumulating., make mistakes when repairing dna errors. dna repair genes look for errors in a cell's dna and make corrections. a mutation in a dna repair gene may mean that other errors aren't corrected, leading cells to become cancerous., gene mutations you're born with. you may be born with a genetic mutation that you inherited from your parents. this type of mutation accounts for a small percentage of cancers., gene mutations that occur after birth. most gene mutations occur after you're born and aren't inherited. a number of forces can cause gene mutations, such as smoking, radiation, viruses, cancer-causing chemicals (carcinogens), obesity, hormones, chronic inflammation and a lack of exercise., cancer care at mayo clinic, myths about cancer causes, pain. pain can be caused by cancer or by cancer treatment, though not all cancer is painful. medications and other approaches can effectively treat cancer-related pain., fatigue. fatigue in people with cancer has many causes, but it can often be managed. fatigue associated with chemotherapy or radiation therapy treatments is common, but it's usually temporary., difficulty breathing. cancer or cancer treatment may cause a feeling of being short of breath. treatments may bring relief., nausea. certain cancers and cancer treatments can cause nausea. your doctor can sometimes predict if your treatment is likely to cause nausea. medications and other treatments may help you prevent or decrease nausea., diarrhea or constipation. cancer and cancer treatment can affect your bowels and cause diarrhea or constipation., weight loss. cancer and cancer treatment may cause weight loss. cancer steals food from normal cells and deprives them of nutrients. this is often not affected by how many calories or what kind of food is eaten; it's difficult to treat. in most cases, using artificial nutrition through tubes into the stomach or vein does not help change the weight loss., chemical changes in your body. cancer can upset the normal chemical balance in your body and increase your risk of serious complications. signs and symptoms of chemical imbalances might include excessive thirst, frequent urination, constipation and confusion., brain and nervous system problems. cancer can press on nearby nerves and cause pain and loss of function of one part of your body. cancer that involves the brain can cause headaches and stroke-like signs and symptoms, such as weakness on one side of your body., unusual immune system reactions to cancer. in some cases the body's immune system may react to the presence of cancer by attacking healthy cells. called paraneoplastic syndromes, these very rare reactions can lead to a variety of signs and symptoms, such as difficulty walking and seizures., cancer that spreads. as cancer advances, it may spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body. where cancer spreads depends on the type of cancer., cancer that returns. cancer survivors have a risk of cancer recurrence. some cancers are more likely to recur than others. ask your doctor about what you can do to reduce your risk of cancer recurrence. your doctor may devise a follow-up care plan for you after treatment. this plan may include periodic scans and exams in the months and years after your treatment, to look for cancer recurrence., stop smoking. if you smoke, quit. if you don't smoke, don't start. smoking is linked to several types of cancer — not just lung cancer. stopping now will reduce your risk of cancer in the future., avoid excessive sun exposure. harmful ultraviolet (uv) rays from the sun can increase your risk of skin cancer. limit your sun exposure by staying in the shade, wearing protective clothing or applying sunscreen., eat a healthy diet. choose a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. select whole grains and lean proteins. limit your intake of processed meats., exercise most days of the week. regular exercise is linked to a lower risk of cancer. aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week. if you haven't been exercising regularly, start out slowly and work your way up to 30 minutes or longer., maintain a healthy weight. being overweight or obese may increase your risk of cancer. work to achieve and maintain a healthy weight through a combination of a healthy diet and regular exercise., drink alcohol in moderation, if you choose to drink. if you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. for healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men., schedule cancer screening exams. talk to your doctor about what types of cancer screening exams are best for you based on your risk factors., ask your doctor about immunizations. certain viruses increase your risk of cancer. immunizations may help prevent those viruses, including hepatitis b, which increases the risk of liver cancer, and human papillomavirus (hpv), which increases the risk of cervical cancer and other cancers. ask your doctor whether immunization against these viruses is appropriate for you., cancer. world health organization. https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/cancer. accessed feb. 16, 2021., cancer stat facts: cancer of any site. national cancer institute surveillance, epidemiology, and end results program. https://seer.cancer.gov/statfacts/html/all.html. accessed feb. 16, 2021., symptoms of cancer. national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/diagnosis-staging/symptoms. accessed feb. 16, 2021., rock cl, et al. american cancer society guideline for diet and physical activity for cancer prevention. ca: a cancer journal for clinicians. 2020;doi:doi.org/10.3322/caac.21591., niederhuber je, et al., eds. genetic and epigenetic alterations in cancer. in: abeloff's clinical oncology. 6th ed. elsevier; 2020. https://www.clinicalkey.com. accessed dec. 4, 2020., ulcerative colitis. national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases. https://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/digestive-diseases/ulcerative-colitis/all-content. accessed feb. 16, 2021., paraneoplastic syndromes information page. national institute of neurological disorder and stroke. https://www.ninds.nih.gov/disorders/all-disorders/paraneoplastic-syndromes-information-page. accessed feb. 16, 2021., deng ge, et al. evidence-based clinical practice guidelines for integrative oncology: complementary therapies and botanicals. journal of the society for integrative oncology. 2009;7:85., taking time: support for people with cancer. national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/taking-time. accessed feb. 16, 2021., the american cancer society, eds. the principles and drivers of cancer. in: the american cancer society's principles of oncology: prevention to survivorship. wiley-blackwell; 2018., hypercalcemia (high level of calcium in the blood). merck manual consumer edition. https://www.merckmanuals.com/home/hormonal-and-metabolic-disorders/electrolyte-balance/hypercalcemia-high-level-of-calcium-in-the-blood#. accessed feb. 16, 2021., what is cancer? national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/understanding/what-is-cancer. accessed feb. 16, 2021., cancer prevention overview (pdq) — health professional version. national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/hp-prevention-overview-pdq. accessed feb. 16, 2021., the genetics of cancer. national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics. accessed feb. 16, 2021., understanding cancer risk. cancer.net. https://www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/prevention-and-healthy-living/understanding-cancer-risk. accessed feb. 16. 2021., cancer screening overview (pdq) — health professional version. national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/screening/hp-screening-overview-pdq. accessed feb. 16, 2021., how cancer is diagnosed. national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/diagnosis-staging/diagnosis. accessed feb. 16, 2021., cancer staging. national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/diagnosis-staging/staging. accessed feb. 16, 2021., making decisions about cancer treatment. cancer.net. https://www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/how-cancer-treated/making-decisions-about-cancer-treatment. accessed feb. 16, 2021., how cancer is treated. cancer.net. https://www.cancer.net/navigating-cancer-care/how-cancer-treated. accessed feb. 16, 2021., absolute risk, adjuvant therapy for cancer, atypical cells: are they cancer?, biopsy procedures, cancer blood tests, cancer diagnosis: 11 tips for coping, cancer diagnosis? advice for dealing with what comes next, cancer pain: relief is possible, cancer risk: what the numbers mean, cancer surgery, cancer survival rate, cancer survivors: care for your body after treatment, cancer survivors: late effects of cancer treatment, cancer survivors: managing your emotions after cancer treatment, cancer survivors: reconnecting with loved ones after treatment, cancer treatment decisions: 5 steps to help you decide, cancer treatment for men: possible sexual side effects, cancer treatment for women: possible sexual side effects, cancer treatment myths, cancer vaccine research, cancer-related diarrhea, cancer-related fatigue, chemotherapy side effects: a cause of heart disease?, curcumin: can it slow cancer growth?, eating during cancer treatment: tips to make food tastier, heart cancer: is there such a thing?, high-dose vitamin c: can it kill cancer cells?, how cancer spreads, image-guided needle biopsy, infographic: cancer clinical trials offer many benefits, low blood counts, monoclonal antibody drugs, mort crim and cancer, mouth sores caused by cancer treatment: how to cope, myths about cancer causes, no appetite? how to get nutrition during cancer treatment, picc line placement, punch biopsy, relative risk, self-image during cancer, small cell, large cell cancer: what this means, thalidomide: research advances in cancer and other conditions, tumor vs. cyst: what's the difference?, what does cancer look like?, when cancer returns: how to cope with cancer recurrence, your secret weapon during cancer treatment? exercise!, biological therapy for cancer, bone marrow transplant, bone scan, chemotherapy, complete blood count (cbc), ct scan, mri, palliative care, radiation therapy, ultrasound, x-ray, mayo clinic expert calls for public health measures to improve diet, reduce cancer risk april 27, 2022, 04:27 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: patient navigators help guide the cancer journey april 19, 2022, 12:05 p.m. cdt, science saturday: time tempers anthracyclines into a toxin or treatment for cancer april 16, 2022, 11:00 a.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: what's the best tool for preventing cancer? april 07, 2022, 02:30 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: meeting the unique needs of adolescent and young adult patients with cancer april 05, 2022, 12:30 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic study reports genomic data disparities among racial groups march 17, 2022, 02:00 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: pediatric fertility preservation offers hope for families feb. 14, 2022, 01:28 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic cancer center researchers identify promising drug to treat gastrointestinal cancers feb. 07, 2022, 05:20 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic cancer center honors world cancer day, joins call to close gap in cancer care feb. 04, 2022, 02:59 p.m. cdt, science saturday: scientists link enzyme to immune suppression in cancer jan. 08, 2022, 12:00 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic research finds immune system responds to mrna treatment for cancer dec. 15, 2021, 04:00 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: diet and nutrition help cancer survivors return to good health dec. 06, 2021, 03:32 p.m. cdt, commentary highlights reasons for lack of diversity in cancer research nov. 17, 2021, 04:05 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: cancer is the leading disease-related cause of death in children sept. 09, 2021, 12:53 p.m. cdt, science saturday: new technique to study 'microcancers' and screen cancer-fighting drugs june 26, 2021, 12:21 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: cancer survivorship needs are unique for each survivor june 07, 2021, 05:00 p.m. cdt, groundbreaking early cancer detection test studied at mayo clinic introduced nationally june 04, 2021, 04:15 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic to offer national cancer survivors day video series may 28, 2021, 04:00 p.m. cdt, study of mouse gut microbiome may provide clues to how cancer develops in humans april 10, 2021, 01:00 a.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: don't delay lifesaving cancer tests, treatments because of covid-19 march 02, 2021, 03:19 p.m. cdt, proton therapy induces biologic response to attack treatment-resistant cancers feb. 17, 2021, 03:32 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: advancing research, challenging cancer feb. 15, 2021, 05:30 p.m. cdt, ionic liquid formulation uniformly delivers chemotherapy to tumors while destroying cancerous tissue feb. 10, 2021, 08:04 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q and a: genetic abnormalities and cancer risk jan. 18, 2021, 06:30 p.m. cdt, safety of covid-19 vaccines for patients with cancer and cancer survivors jan. 15, 2021, 03:50 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic study finds 1 in 8 patients with cancer harbor inherited genetic mutations nov. 02, 2020, 04:08 p.m. cdt, science saturday: seeing cancer, but not through a microscope oct. 24, 2020, 10:00 a.m. cdt, updated exercise guidelines for cancer patients, survivors: mayo clinic radio health minute oct. 14, 2020, 09:39 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: don't delay cancer screenings sept. 09, 2020, 02:12 p.m. cdt, preventing cancer with lifestyle changes: mayo clinic radio health minute aug. 28, 2020, 05:32 p.m. cdt, hereditary cancers: mayo clinic radio health minute july 20, 2020, 06:34 p.m. cdt, using emojis to track cancer patients: mayo clinic radio health minute july 17, 2020, 06:28 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: cancer and nutrition june 22, 2020, 01:40 p.m. cdt, using measles to fight cancer: mayo clinic radio health minute may 28, 2020, 06:04 p.m. cdt, assortment of pill aids from mayo clinic store, book: live younger longer, book: mayo clinic family health book, 5th edition, mayo clinic cancer center, newsletter: mayo clinic health letter — digital edition, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, policy, opportunities, ad choices, new – the essential diabetes book - mayo clinic pressnew – the essential diabetes book, cook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes - mayo clinic presscook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes, new – mayo clinic on hearing and balance - mayo clinic pressnew – mayo clinic on hearing and balance, free mayo clinic diet assessment - mayo clinic pressfree mayo clinic diet assessment, mayo clinic health letter - free book - mayo clinic pressmayo clinic health letter - free book, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, cancer, request appointment, contact us, about mayo clinic, employees, find a job, site map, about this site, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, terms and conditions, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices, notice of nondiscrimination, manage cookies]