[for partners, already a partner?, find a cisco partner, meet our partners, become a cisco partner, have an account?, need an account?, the documentation set for this product strives to use bias-free language. for the purposes of this documentation set, bias-free is defined as language that does not imply discrimination based on age, disability, gender, racial identity, ethnic identity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, and intersectionality. exceptions may be present in the documentation due to language that is hardcoded in the user interfaces of the product software, language used based on rfp documentation, or language that is used by a referenced third-party product. learn more about how cisco is using inclusive language., , , this document describes what http cookies are and what the difference is between session cookies and persistent cookies., cookies are strings of data that a web server sends to the browser. when a browser requests an object from the same domain in the future, the browser will send the same string of data back to the origin server., the data is sent from the web server in the form of an http header called "set-cookie". the browser sends the cookie back to the server in an http header called "cookie"., here is an example of what an http cookie transaction might look like:, http response from the web server:, http get from the client:, in the sample transaction, the web server told the client to create the cookie "first.lastname". the next time the client requests an object from this domain it sends the cookie with the request. this illustrates how a web server might be able to recall certain information such as user logins., there are two different types of cookies - session cookies and persistent cookies. if a cookie does not contain an expiration date, it is considered a session cookie. session cookies are stored in memory and never written to disk. when the browser closes, the cookie is permanently lost from this point on. if the cookie contains an expiration date, it is considered a persistent cookie. on the date specified in the expiration, the cookie will be removed from the disk., there are several different fields a cookie can contain, separated by semicolons. the definitions are:, expires, expires="wdy, dd-mon-yyyy hh:mm:ss gmt", determines when the cookie is to be deleted., path, path=/, determines what path to return the cookie on. in this example, the cookie will be sent when going to the root path in a domain., domain, domain=whatever.domain.com, specifies what domain the cookie is used for. if this does not match the domain currently being browsed to, it is considered to be a "3rd party cookie" and will be rejected by the browser. this prevents one domain setting a cookie for a different domain.][what are cookies? what are the differences between them (session vs. persistent)?, available languages, download options, bias-free language, contents, introduction, background information, types of cookies, contributed by cisco engineers, was this document helpful?, contact cisco, this document applies to these products]what are cookies? what are the differences between them (session vs. persistent)? - cisco[expires, path, domain][skip to content, skip to search, skip to footer, partners home, new partner program, support, tools,   personalized content,   your products and support, forgot your password?, about cisco accounts, help, products and services, solutions, support, learn, , support, product support, security, cisco secure web appliance, support faq, pdf (5.1 kb) view with adobe reader on a variety of devices, epub (84.7 kb) view in various apps on iphone, ipad, android, sony reader, or windows phone, mobi (kindle) (70.5 kb) view on kindle device or kindle app on multiple devices, stephan fiebrandt cisco tac engineer, open a support case, (requires a cisco service contract), secure web appliance, about cisco, contact us, careers, meet our partners, feedback, help, terms & conditions, privacy statement, cookies, trademarks, supply chain transparency, sitemap]