[your symptoms may depend on the type of cancer you have, how advanced it is, where it’s located, and how much it has spread throughout your body., cancer can cause almost any type of sign or symptom., a sign is something that others can see, such as a fever, vomiting, or fast breathing. symptoms are perceived only by the person who has the condition. for example, weakness, tiredness, and pain are symptoms. (1), you may experience both signs and symptoms of cancer, which can signal that something is wrong in your body. recognizing these indicators can lead to an earlier diagnosis and possibly a better outlook., related: aggressive treatment of early lung cancer improves survival, when cancer grows, it can push on nearby organs, nerves, and blood vessels, which can cause signs and symptoms. even the smallest tumors can cause symptoms in certain organs, such as the brain., if your cancer spreads, or metastasizes, you may notice signs or symptoms in different parts of your body., another reason you may experience symptoms is that cancer cells use up a lot of your body’s energy supply. they also cause changes in how your immune system works. (1), related: yoga, meditation may ease some breast cancer symptoms, although every case is different, some general signs and symptoms of cancer include:, most of the time, these symptoms aren’t caused by cancer. a benign tumor or another problem may be the culprit. but you shouldn’t ignore symptoms that are persistent, severe, or don’t go away., related: are you anemic? the signs to look for, symptoms may be different or more intense if your cancer has metastasized to other parts of your body., here are some common symptoms of cancer that has spread:, related: what happens when metastatic breast cancer spreads to your bones?, while weight loss is a more common symptom of cancer, some people do experience weight gain., studies show more than half of women with breast cancer gain weight during treatment, and those extra pounds are linked to poorer outcomes. (6), the excess weight may be a side effect of medicines like steroids or hormones. also, certain chemo drugs might cause you to retain extra fluids, which is known as edema. this can increase your body weight.or, you might simply eat more because you’re anxious or trying to improve nausea symptoms. a common side effect of steroids — given to prevent the nausea and allergic reactions that come with many chemotherapies — is increased appetite. additionally, many people with cancer notice that their energy levels drop, which can lead to inactivity and weight gain. (7), related: abdominal fat raises risk for lung cancer in post-menopausal women, some cancer medications, such as anti-vegf drugs, can cause an increase in blood pressure. these treatments help block blood flow supply to tumors, but they also can affect other blood vessels in the body, which can elevate blood pressure. (8), also, high blood pressure may be a sign of certain cancers, such as adrenal cancer. (9) , other treatments, such as chemotherapy and certain targeted drugs, may cause low blood pressure. (10) ,  , related: fda recall of heart meds grows due to cancer risk, people with cancer have a greater risk of developing deep vein thrombosis (dvt; a blood clot that forms in a deep vein). many cancers secrete substances into the blood that make the blood "thicker" and more likely to form a clot. many chemo drugs may also up your risk for dvt. (11), why does cancer cause back pain?, most cases of back pain aren’t caused by cancer, but back pain can be an indicator., back pain is a symptom of many types of cancers, including primary bone cancer and those that have metastasized from the breast, colon, testicles, or lungs., usually, tumors put pressure on the spine and affect the nerves around it, which causes the pain. (12), related: cancer: what does it mean to get palliative care?, identifying symptoms can help you and your doctor detect your cancer earlier. this is important because the sooner cancer is found, the better your prognosis. (13), for example, melanoma can be effectively treated if it’s spotted early. the five-year survival rate is around 98 percent if the cancer hasn’t grown deep into the skin. (14), while symptoms are most likely caused by something other than cancer, you shouldn’t dismiss them. this is especially true if the problem has lasted a long time or has gotten worse., related: lung cancer basics, sometimes, people with cancer don’t experience any signs or symptoms at all. others only have issues when the cancer has spread throughout their body., for instance, ovarian cancer usually doesn’t cause any noticeable problems until it spreads to other organs. by the time this cancer causes signs or symptoms, it’s usually very advanced and difficult to cure., it’s possible to spot cancers before you have any symptoms. checkups and screening tests may be able to detect certain cancers in your body before they start affecting you., ask your doctor if you should have any special tests. if you have a family history of a certain cancer or have been exposed to specific risk factors, your physician may perform more aggressive testing., it’s always a good idea to see your doctor if you have symptoms that concern you., your symptoms are most likely caused by something else, but it’s important to get checked out just in case. at the very least, your physician can help you figure out what’s causing the issues., you’ll probably be referred to a specialist if your doctor thinks your symptoms are caused by cancer., if you’re worried about developing cancer or have a family history of the disease but don’t have symptoms, it can still be helpful to talk to your doctor about your risk. ask your healthcare provider about any screening tests or procedures that might be appropriate. (2), related: does ibd put you at greater risk of skin cancer?, by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., pacritinib fills a treatment gap for patients with myelofibrosis and a low platelet count, losing weight might reduce your risk for colon cancer, a new drug may help hard-to-treat ovarian cancer, and more cancer research news from february 2022..., the program aims to slash the cancer death rate by half over the next 25 years., improving arm function after breast cancer surgery, earlier hpv vaccination may offer more protection from cervical cancer, and more cancer news from ..., public figures face a dilemma when diagnosed with cancer: go public or keep it private? how do they make the call?, low white blood counts are among the life-threatening obstacles patients face when receiving chemotherapy. a new drug could change that., a possible vaccine for triple-negative breast cancer, a breast cancer prediction tool for black american women, and more cancer news from october 2021..., genetic counselors and advocates spread awareness, share personal stories, and give their best tips in honor of hereditary cancer awareness week.&nbsp..., receiving a covid-19 vaccination rarely interrupts cancer care, more evidence ties antibiotics to colorectal cancer, and more cancer news from september..., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][what are some of the signs and symptoms of cancer?, how does cancer cause signs and symptoms?, some of the most common signs and symptoms of cancer, clues that your cancer has spread, can cancer cause weight gain?, can cancer affect blood pressure?, can cancer cause blood clots?, why noticing cancer symptoms is important, some cancers cause no symptoms at all, when should you go to see your doctor to be checked out?, resources we love, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in cancer, condition kitchen: 3 easy, go-to recipes for people living with cancer, fda approves pacritinib for treatment of myelofibrosis, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for february 2022, biden relaunches cancer moonshot program with pledge to ‘end cancer as we know it’, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for november 2021, celebrities with cancer: why do some go public — and others don’t?, fda rejects promising new drug that prevents low white blood cell counts in patients receiving chemotherapy, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for october 2021, everyday health’s hereditary cancer risk twitter chat: here’s what you missed, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for september 2021, cancer news digest: latest developments in cancer research and treatment for june, what is uterine cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, biden relaunches cancer moonshot program with pledge to “end cancer as we know it’]what are the signs and symptoms that suggest cancer? | everyday health[related: aggressive treatment of early lung cancer improves survival, how does cancer cause signs and symptoms?, related: yoga, meditation may ease some breast cancer symptoms, some of the most common signs and symptoms of cancer, weight loss , fever , fatigue , a lump , skin changes , pain , bowel or bladder function changes , cough or hoarseness , indigestion , bleeding , changes in your mouth , swollen lymph nodes , being out of breath , bloating, anemia, related:, are you anemic? the signs to look for, clues that your cancer has spread, bone metastasis, liver metastasis, brain metastasis, lung metastasis, related: what happens when metastatic breast cancer spreads to your bones?, can cancer cause weight gain?, related: abdominal fat raises risk for lung cancer in post-menopausal women, can cancer affect blood pressure?, related:, fda recall of heart meds grows due to cancer risk, can cancer cause blood clots?, why does cancer cause back pain?,  , related: cancer: what does it mean to get palliative care?, why noticing cancer symptoms is important, related: lung cancer basics, some cancers cause no symptoms at all, , when should you go to see your doctor to be checked out?, related: does ibd put you at greater risk of skin cancer?][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, weight loss unexplained weight loss of 10 pounds or more may be one of the first signs of cancer. weight loss is common in people who have pancreatic, stomach, esophageal, or lung cancer, but can occur with any type of cancer. (1, 2), fever fevers frequently crop up when a cancer has metastasized. night sweats often accompany the fevers. nearly all people with cancer will experience a fever at some point. (1,2), fatigue feeling extremely tired can be a symptom of cancer in your body. (1,2), a lump a lump or thickening of skin can be an early or late sign of cancer. people with cancers in the breast, lymph nodes, soft tissues, and testicles typically have lumps. (1,2), skin changes yellowing, darkening, or redness of the skin can signal cancer. also, sores that don’t heal should be checked out. additionally, moles, freckles, or warts that change in color, shape, or size could be a sign of skin cancer. (1,2), pain most of the time, pain happens because the cancer has already spread in your body. but pain may be an early symptom of bone cancer or testicular cancer. back pain is common in people with colorectal cancer, pancreatic cancer, or ovarian cancer. those with brain tumors often complain of a headache that doesn’t go away. (1,2), bowel or bladder function changes constipation, diarrhea, and other bowel issues may be a sign of colorectal cancer. people with bladder cancer and prostate cancer may report pain during urination, blood in the urine, or other bladder-function changes. (1,2), cough or hoarseness a cough that doesn’t go away or a hoarse voice may be a sign of lung cancer, cancer of the larynx, or thyroid cancer. (1,2), indigestion indigestion or problems swallowing can be a sign of stomach, esophageal, or throat cancer. (1,2), bleeding unusual bleeding is associated with many different cancers. coughing up blood may signal lung cancer. bloody stools could be a sign of colon or rectal cancer. women with cervical or endometrial cancer may experience abnormal vaginal bleeding. blood in the urine could mean you have bladder or kidney cancer. bloody discharge from a woman’s nipple might indicate breast cancer. (1,2), changes in your mouth white patches inside your mouth or on your tongue could be precancers that can turn into oral cancer. sores, bleeding, or numbness in the mouth may also be a sign of certain cancers. (1,2), swollen lymph nodes sometimes, enlarged lymph nodes can signal cancer. you should have your doctor check it out if your gland remains swollen for three to four weeks. (1,2), being out of breath constantly feeling out of breath may be a sign of certain cancers. (1,2), bloating a constant uncomfortable feeling of fullness that lasts daily for weeks could be a sign of ovarian cancer. (3), anemia several cancers, including leukemia and lymphoma, can cause anemia (low red blood cell counts). these abnormal levels show up on blood tests. having anemia can make you feel tired and weak. (4), bone metastasis cancer that has spread to the bones may cause joint pain or fractures., liver metastasis if your disease has invaded your liver, you might experience jaundice and swelling in your abdomen., brain metastasis when cancer metastasizes to the brain, symptoms may include headaches, speech difficulties, blurred vision, or dizziness., lung metastasis cancer that has spread to the lungs may trigger shortness of breath or a persistent cough. (5), signs and symptoms of cancer. american cancer society. august 11, 2014., cancer: symptoms & causes. mayo clinic. may 23, 2015, 5 early signs of ovarian cancer. rush university medical center., what is the relationship between anemia and cancer? dana-farber cancer institute. september 17, 2018., cancer symptoms. cancer treatment centers of america., weight gain. american society of clinical oncologists (asco). june 2019., weight gain. canadian cancer society., high blood pressure. siteman cancer center., adrenal cancer. cedars-sinai., low blood pressure (hypotension). breastcancer.org. april 23, 2019., blood clots (deep vein thrombosis) and cancer. memorial sloan kettering cancer center., back pain and cancer: how are they related? dana-farber cancer institute. july 10, 2018., key signs and symptoms of cancer. cancer research uk. november 2, 2017., melanoma: statistics. asco. july 20, 2017., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]