[the american cancer society is here to support ukrainian patients with cancer, caregivers, and clinicians., whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here., you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early., whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home., our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research., what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life., we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better., prod, “i work with patients every day. i see what cancer does.”, information about cancer care, vaccines, screenings, and more., ending melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancers on people with light and dark skins., join our cancer survivors network online community., your loved one's legacy can be a cancer-free world., 1 in 3 people will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime. if you’ve been recently diagnosed, or know someone who has, we’re here with answers, guidance, and support., , you don’t have to face a cancer diagnosis alone. talk or chat live with a trained cancer information specialist or find support in your own community., call us: 1-800-227-2345 talk online: use the chat button in the lower right, learn about the benefits of good nutrition, regular physical activity, and staying at a healthy weight., let the great american smokeout event be your day to start your journey toward a smoke-free life., human papillomavirus can cause 6 types of cancer. but preventing it — and the cancers it causes — is simple., learn about recommended cancer screening tests and find resources to help you get on a screening schedule that's right for you., we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers, fundraisers, and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives., join the world’s largest volunteer-based fundraising event., support the walk that unites more than 200 communities every year., be part of the movement to save lives and celebrate life. every single day., fight together to influence public policy and make cancer a national priority., connect with american cancer society staff or others who are facing cancer for information and support., when cancer treatment is far from home, our hope lodge facilities offer a free place to stay and a supportive space to rest. we also provide lodging grants to local healthcare systems partners so they can provide lodging assistance to their patients., road to recovery connects cancer patients in need of transportation to treatment with volunteers to get them there. we also provide transportation grants to local healthcare systems partners to provide transportation assistance to their patients., what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life., we conduct and publish research on cancer prevention, surveillance, health services, and disparities. publications include cancer facts & figure reports., we conduct and publish research about cancer risk factors, the quality of life, and cancer survivors through cancer prevention studies (cps), including cps-ii and cps-3., we fund high impact and innovative research for any type of cancer and from bench to bedside by supporting scientists across the united states with research grants., latashia - survivor, breast cancer, cheryl - survivor, breast cancer, rick - survivor, colon & kidney cancer, terry - survivor, colon cancer, victoria - survivor, ovarian cancer, imagine a world free from cancer. help make it a reality., donate, cancer information, answers, and hope. available every minute of every day., © 2022 american cancer society, inc. all rights reserved. the american cancer society is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. tax id number: 13-1788491. cancer.org is provided courtesy of the leo and gloria rosen family.][more topics, insights and inspiration, featured resources, related topics, featured resources, navigating treatment, top story, more cancer news, top story, life-saving research, interactive & multimedia, more ways to get involved, our passion, partners spotlight, partners against cancer, partners spotlight, get to know us, making a difference, get cancer information now, overall impact, $5b, 3.2m, 16.9m, 1m+, volunteer and fundraise, volunteer and fundraising impact, 1.5m, 1.7m, $8b, 400, services for you, community impact, 135m, 1.4m, 490k, 500k, research that saves lives, cancer journeys, 800.227.2345]american cancer society | information and resources about for cancer: breast, colon, lung, prostate, skin[imagine a world free from cancer., , ][español, more languages, cancer a-z whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here. explore cancer a-z breast cancer colon and rectal cancer lung cancer prostate cancer skin cancer all cancer types more topics cancer basics what causes cancer? cancer glossary insights and inspiration cancer news stories of hope acs bookstore for professionals, explore cancer a-z, breast cancer, colon and rectal cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, skin cancer, all cancer types, cancer basics, what causes cancer?, cancer glossary, cancer news, stories of hope, acs bookstore, for professionals, stay healthy you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early. explore stay healthy find cancer early stay away from tobacco eat healthy & get active be safe in the sun protect against hpv cancer facts featured resources screening guidelines by age sun safety videos nutrition & activity quiz bmi calculator videos, quizzes, & calculators healthy recipes related topics learn about carcinogens genetics & cancer alcohol use & cancer signs & symptoms of cancer cancer prevention news, explore stay healthy, find cancer early, stay away from tobacco, eat healthy & get active, be safe in the sun, protect against hpv, cancer facts, screening guidelines by age, sun safety videos, nutrition & activity quiz, bmi calculator, videos, quizzes, & calculators, healthy recipes, learn about carcinogens, genetics & cancer, alcohol use & cancer, signs & symptoms of cancer, cancer prevention news, treatment & support whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home. explore treatment & support understanding your diagnosis treatment & side effects survivorship financial & insurance matters children & cancer for caregivers & family nearing the end of life featured resources patient programs and services clinical trials when natural disasters strike choosing your treatment team understanding recurrence navigating treatment personal health manager caregiver resource guide treatment videos survivorship care plans, explore treatment & support, understanding your diagnosis, treatment & side effects, survivorship, financial & insurance matters, children & cancer, for caregivers & family, nearing the end of life, patient programs and services, clinical trials, when natural disasters strike, choosing your treatment team, understanding recurrence, personal health manager, caregiver resource guide, treatment videos, survivorship care plans, news top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research. explore news latest news cancer updates living well acs research stories of hope more cancer news cancer facts and statistics research highlights acs press room top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak, explore news, latest news, cancer updates, living well, acs research, stories of hope, cancer facts and statistics, research highlights, acs press room, our research what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life. explore our research acs research highlights acs research news cancer facts & figures cps-3: cancer prevention study-3 currently funded cancer research apply for a grant life-saving research research we fund surveillance & health equity science population science our research team interactive & multimedia cancer statistics center tobacco atlas cancer atlas acs research podcasts, explore our research, acs research highlights, acs research news, cancer facts & figures, cps-3: cancer prevention study-3, currently funded cancer research, apply for a grant, research we fund, surveillance & health equity science, population science, our research team, cancer statistics center, tobacco atlas, cancer atlas, acs research podcasts, get involved we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives. explore get involved volunteer donate fundraise sign up for email more ways to get involved plan a gift shop to save lives celebrate a loved one be an advocate our passion volunteer to help acs in your community cancer news more ways to give, explore get involved, volunteer, donate, fundraise, sign up for email, plan a gift, shop to save lives, celebrate a loved one, be an advocate, volunteer to help, acs in your community, cancer news, more ways to give, our partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer. explore our partners become a partner partner promotions employee engagement partners against cancer corporate partners ceo's against cancer sports alliances brand ambassadors community partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, explore our partners, become a partner, partner promotions, employee engagement, corporate partners, ceo's against cancer, sports alliances, brand ambassadors, community partners, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, about us at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better. explore about us who we are what we do where we help sign up for email get to know us our history global cancer programs financials & governance multicultural communities making a difference careers at acs our leadership acs news room, explore about us, who we are, what we do, where we help, sign up for email, our history, global cancer programs, financials & governance, multicultural communities, careers at acs, our leadership, acs news room, cancer prevention & detection, cancer basics, signs & symptoms of cancer, treatments & side effects, acs research highlights, cancer facts & statistics, news and stories, glossary, for health care professionals, lodging during treatment, rides to treatment, breast cancer support, hair loss and mastectomy products, connecting cancer survivors, making strides against breast cancer walks, relay for life events, american cancer society on campus, coaches vs. cancer, galas, balls & parties, ways to give, memorial giving, planned giving, philanthropy, donate a car, contact us, local offices, employment, information for suppliers, report fraud or abuse, sign up for email, our research, cancer action network, global health, policies, our volunteers, bookstore, cancer atlas, cancer statistics center, acs news room, volunteer community, help, site map, privacy policy, accessibility, terms of use, state fundraising notices, site comments]