[as the largest u.s. publisher of magazines worldwide, hearst magazines international, a unit of hearst, encompasses nearly 300 print editions and more than 265 websites in 34 languages and 84 countries. major titles include powerful brand equities like cosmopolitan and elle, both international super-brands with more editions than any other women’s magazines in the world; elle decor, esquire, good housekeeping, harper's bazaar, popular mechanics, and seventeen. in addition, hearst magazines international publishes other titles through joint ventures, including men’s health and runner’s world in the u.k. and the robb report in russia and china. hearst magazines has wholly-owned subsidiaries in china, italy, japan, the netherlands, spain, taiwan and the uk. hearst magazines publishes 20 titles in the u.s., hearst media china is a 100% subsidiary business unit of hearst corporation and has been operating in china since 1988. we offer multi-media business innovation services via advertising campaign, digital marketing service, video production, crm solutions and nationwide retail distribution management. we affect millions of audiences, not only on the basis of the total circulation of more than 6 million magazines audience per month covering fashion trends, beauty, health, car and home decoration, but also 19 million followers on social media, as well as on the vigorous promotion of integrated marketing on new media platforms including web, video, apps, events, credit card, which reach out a large amount of online followers., hearst is one of the nation's largest diversified media, information and services companies with more than 360 businesses. its major interests include ownership in cable television networks such as a&e, history, lifetime and espn; global financial services leader fitch group; hearst health, a group of medical information and services businesses; transportation assets including camp systems international, a major provider of software-as-a-service solutions for managing maintenance of jets; 31 television stations such as wcvb-tv in boston and kcra-tv in sacramento, california, which reach a combined 19 percent of u.s. viewers; newspapers such as the houston chronicle, san francisco chronicle and albany times union, more than 300 magazines around the world including cosmopolitan, elle, men’s health and car and driver; digital services businesses such as icrossing and kubra; and investments in emerging digital entertainment companies such as complex networks.][, 中|en, about hearst magazines international, about hearst media china, about hearst]about us - hearst.inc[][首页, 关于赫斯特, 品牌介绍, , , , 其他服务, 广告刊例, 联系我们, 联系我们, , , , , , , , , , , copyright ©2020 hearst.com.cn all rights reserved. bj beat advertising co.,ltd, 版权所有京icp证060525号]