[jeanine pucci was surprised to learn her persistent cough was something more serious., for teachers, colds are just part of the job. so when jeanine pucci, 43, developed a cough in the early fall of 2013, she assumed she caught something from one of her first graders., “but the cough didn’t seem to be going away,” pucci remembers., after about two months of persistent coughing and urging from her friends, she finally went to a walk-in clinic where a chest x-ray revealed a mass on her lungs., a doctor at memorial sloan kettering later told her she had stage iv lung cancer that had spread to her bone. the news, delivered just days before thanksgiving, came as a shock in part because the cancer was so advanced, but also because pucci was not a smoker., “i was repulsed by [smoking] my whole life. i could not even look at an ashtray. i never even tried a cigarette,” she says., unfortunately, pucci’s case is not unique: 16,000 to 24,000 non-smoking americans die of lung cancer each year, and studies have shown that non-smoking women have a higher risk for contracting lung cancer than non-smoking men, although the reason why remains unclear. if lung cancer in non-smokers was its own type of cancer, it would rank among the top 10 most fatal cancers in the united states, according to the american cancer society., spotting lung cancer can be a challenge. although researchers are working on developing breath and blood tests, there is currently no standard method for detecting lung cancer in its early stages. in fact, most diagnoses of early lung cancer are accidental, says albert rizzo, md, chief of pulmonary care at christiana hospital in newark, delaware. patients get computerized tomography (ct) scans for other reasons and the cancer is found in the process., “that’s why it’s so important that there are lung cancer screenings for a high-risk person, otherwise we have no way of screening for asymptomatic people,” he says., the typical screening method is getting annual ct scans. those at a higher risk for lung cancer include people between the ages of 55 and 80 who have a history of smoking or lung cancer in their families. exposure to radon gas, asbestos, chromium, nickel, and secondhand smoke can also increase a person’s risk, as can ethnicity and gender. white females and black males have a higher chance of contracting lung cancer than other racial groups, according to the centers for disease control and prevention., but for those who are not high risk, seemingly nonthreatening symptoms such as pucci’s nagging cough or back pain are often the only signs of lung cancer. this means many patients don’t visit their doctors right away, dr. rizzo says. by the time a patient receives a diagnosis based on symptoms, it usually means the cancer has already become fairly advanced., “a persistent cough that can’t be explained… should prompt someone to seek attention. they should be aware that a symptom like that shouldn’t be ignored,” he adds., pucci's lung cancer has the alk gene mutation, which means an abnormal protein directs cancerous cells to divide and spread. fortunately, the mutation can be treated with medication that blocks the protein from signaling to the cells. unfortunately, there are currently only two drug treatments that target the alk gene mutation, and patients develop resistance to them over time., pucci became resistant to the first medication in december 2014. she recently started taking the other medication, and her tumors have shrunk significantly. she expects to have another 8 to 10 months before she develops resistance to the second treatment, and hopes during that extra time researchers can find another way to target the alk gene mutation., in the meantime, pucci will continue to raise lung cancer awareness (she is participating in the lung force walk in new york city on may 16, 2015, as the team captain of team jeanine) and urges women to be proactive about their lung health., “i think that it’s not even on the radar for women,” she says. “if you have a bad cough, i wouldn’t want to alarm anyone, but you need to be an advocate for yourself.”, editor's note: jeanine pucci passed away in december of 2015. the everyday health team extends its condolences to her family and friends., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., the importance of mental health cannot be underestimated when it comes to coping with a lung cancer diagnosis., testing for biomarkers can uncover more about your lung cancer, allowing doctors to personalize treatment to your unique cancer type., right now, some of the innovations in lung cancer research are occurring in the arenas of repurposing and personalization., screening for lung cancer can save lives, but the majority of people who qualify for the free exam aren’t taking advantage of it., experts recommend that current heavy smokers and people with a long history of heavy smoking get screened for lung cancer. what can you expect?, by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][when ‘just a cough’ is actually stage iv lung cancer, finding emotional support following a non-small-cell lung cancer diagnosis, not just the ‘smoker’s disease’, treatable – for a limited time, the latest in lung cancer, what is ‘scanxiety,’ and how can it affect you when you have metastatic lung cancer?, ‘it’s possible everything is going to be okay’ — a powerful metastatic lung cancer mantra, ‘i feel happier now than ever — and i have metastatic lung cancer’, ‘i had a nagging feeling that something was wrong in my body’, finding emotional support following a non-small-cell lung cancer diagnosis, diagnosed with non-small-cell lung cancer? here’s why you need biomarker testing, new directions: what innovations are coming down the pike for lung cancer?, consumer’s guide to targeted therapies for egfr+ non-small-cell lung cancer, have you been screened for lung cancer?, what happens after a lung ct scan?, what is lung cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, what is non-small-cell lung cancer? symptoms, stages, treatment, and more, 5 early signs of lung cancer]when ‘just a cough’ is actually stage iv lung cancer | everyday health[][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]