[foodies down the block. fashionistas across the country. youtube connects you to the people who matter most to your business., njord rota, owner, majestic heli ski, turn viewers into customers, on any budget. youtube ads uses google data to match your message to the right people at the right moment., kim thompson, spark foundry, youtube ads make it easy for people to choose your business. get more purchases, subscribers, website visits, and more., stephanie syberg, owner and developer tulane's closet, foodies down the block. fashionistas across the country. youtube connects you to the people who matter most to your business., njord rota, owner, majestic heli ski, turn viewers into customers, on any budget. youtube ads uses google data to match your message to the right people at the right moment., kim thompson, spark foundry, youtube ads make it easy for people to choose your business. get more purchases, subscribers, website visits, and more., stephanie syberg, owner and developer tulane's closet, viewers say they’re 2x more likely to buy something they saw on youtube.1, over 70% of viewers say that youtube makes them more aware of new brands.2, viewers are 4x more likely to use youtube versus other platforms to find information about a brand, product, or service.3, anyone can make a youtube ad that gets results. create a video right on your phone, use our free tools and resources, or find the perfect partner to help., 1 versus the competitive average. source: google/talkshoppe, us, whyvideo study, n=2000, ages 18-64, general population video users, feb 2020., 2,3 source: google/talkshoppe, us, whyvideo study, n=2000, ages 18-64, general population video users, feb 2020., in the below terms, "google ads" may mean google ads or google ads express, as appropriate., full terms and conditions can be found here][grow your business with youtube ads, reach potential customers where they're watching. get started now – and start getting results., reach your customers – and find new ones, you know [how] you say a picture is worth a thousand words? video is worth a million., njord rota, owner, majestic heli ski, show up when it counts, we were able to precisely reach people when it was the most relevant to them., kim thompson, spark foundry, see the results you want, we have nearly doubled our sales each year since we started advertising on youtube., stephanie syberg, owner and developer tulane's closet, reach your customers – and find new ones, you know [how] you say a picture is worth a thousand words? video is worth a million., njord rota, owner, majestic heli ski, show up when it counts, we were able to precisely reach people when it was the most relevant to them., kim thompson, spark foundry, see the results you want, we have nearly doubled our sales each year since we started advertising on youtube., stephanie syberg, owner and developer tulane's closet, everything you need to make a great ad, get started with youtube ads, connect, about youtube, products, for business, for creators, our commitments]online video advertising campaigns - youtube advertising[in the below terms, "google ads" may mean google ads or google ads express, as appropriate.][offer available to customers with a billing address in the united states only. one promotional code per advertiser., to activate this offer: enter the promotional code in your account before december 31, 2020. in order to participate in this offer, you must enter the code within 14 days of your first ad impression being served from your first google ads account., to earn the credit: after entering the code, your advertising campaigns must accrue costs of at least $50, excluding any taxes, within 30 days. making a payment of $50 is not sufficient. the tracking of advertising costs towards $50 begins after you've entered the code., once 2 and 3 are completed, the credit will typically be applied within 5 days to the billing summary of your account., credits apply to future advertising costs only. credits cannot be applied to costs accrued before the code was entered., you won’t receive a notification once your credit is used up and any additional advertising costs will be charged to your form of payment. if you don’t want to continue advertising, you can pause or delete your campaigns at any time., your account must be successfully billed by google ads and remain in good standing in order to qualify for the promotional credit.]