[yale journal of law & technology, vol. 6, pp. 277-389, 2003-2004, 114 pages posted: 19 nov 2004  , university of illinois college of law, university of illinois at chicago - department of communication; illinois state university, this article deconstructs code using case studies and shows that code is not neutral and apolitical but instead embodies the values and motivations of the institutions and actors building it. the term "code," as we use it, consists of the hardware and software components of information technologies. code is increasingly being sought as a regulatory mechanism in conjunction with or as an alternative to law for addressing societal concerns such as crime, privacy, intellectual property protection, and the revitalization of democratic discourse. our analysis examines how societal institutions, such as universities, firms, consortia, and the open source movement, differentially influence the production of code. relying on four case studies, we analyze how institutions differ in structure and motivation, and how they are affected by different social, political, economic, and legal influences. we then analyze how these societal institutions, which all approach code creation differently, influence the technical and social characteristics of the code that is developed by them. for example, code developed by a university is likely to contain different values and biases, regarding societal concerns such as privacy, than code developed by a firm. this analysis provides a crucial first step in understanding how society shapes these new technologies. ultimately, this work may assist policymakers in proactively shaping the development of code to address societal concerns., , suggested citation: suggested citation, 504 e. pennsylvania avenue champaign, il 61820 united states 217-333-7887 (phone) 217-244-1478 (fax), home page: http://www.jaykesan.com, 1200 w harrison st chicago, il 60607 united states, home page: http://www.rajivshah.com, normal, il 61790 united states, cyberspace law ejournal, subscribe to this fee journal for more curated articles on this topic, information technology & systems ejournal, subscribe to this fee journal for more curated articles on this topic, information systems: behavioral & social methods ejournal, subscribe to this fee journal for more curated articles on this topic, a new challenge to privacy management: adapting fair information practices to radio frequency identification technology, by gal eschet, property and privacy: european perspectives and the commodification of our identity, by corien prins, 'code' and privacy - or how technology is slowly eroding privacy, by ronald e. leenes and bert-jaap koops, the rule of intellectual property law in the internet economy, by joel r. reidenberg, criteria for normative technology: an essay on the acceptability of 'code as law' in light of democratic and constitutional values, by bert-jaap koops, , cookies are used by this site. to decline or learn more, visit our cookies page. this page was processed by aws-apollo5 in 1.453 seconds][deconstructing code, jay p. kesan, rajiv c. shah, abstract, jay p. kesan (contact author), rajiv shah, register to save articles to your library, paper statistics, related ejournals, recommended papers]deconstructing code by jay p. kesan, rajiv c. shah :: ssrn[your account, suggested citation:][browse, subscriptions, rankings top papers top authors top organizations, top papers, top authors, top organizations, submit a paper, my library, blog, register now, your account, user home, personal info, affiliations, subscriptions, my papers, my library, sign out, , , , , , cyberspace law ejournal follow cyberspace law ejournal subscribe to this fee journal for more curated articles on this topic followers 1,007 papers 8,519 this journal is curated by: peter swire at georgia institute of technology - scheller college of business, jonathan l. zittrain at harvard law school and harvard kennedy school of government, information technology & systems ejournal follow information technology & systems ejournal subscribe to this fee journal for more curated articles on this topic followers 75 papers 3,798 this journal is curated by: carson woo at university of british columbia (ubc) - sauder school of business, information systems: behavioral & social methods ejournal follow information systems: behavioral & social methods ejournal subscribe to this fee journal for more curated articles on this topic followers 60 papers 6,248, a new challenge to privacy management: adapting fair information practices to radio frequency identification technology by gal eschet, property and privacy: european perspectives and the commodification of our identity by corien prins, 'code' and privacy - or how technology is slowly eroding privacy by ronald e. leenes and bert-jaap koops, the rule of intellectual property law in the internet economy by joel r. reidenberg, criteria for normative technology: an essay on the acceptability of 'code as law' in light of democratic and constitutional values by bert-jaap koops, ssrn solutions, research paper series, conference papers, partners in publishing, jobs & announcements, newsletter sign up, top papers, top authors, top organizations, ssrn objectives, network directors, presidential letter, announcements, contact us, faqs, , , , ]