[more, we know what to send to a cancer patient or someone recovering from an illness or surgery. we've got you covered with unique alternative gifts that are actually helpful. send a get well care package delivered right to their door when you can't be there yourself., many people undergoing chemotherapy treatment may develop olafactory or taste/smell changes. chemo can kill or slow the growth of cancer cells but may also damage healthy cells such as tastebuds. radiation to the head or neck area can also damage tastebuds and salivary glands. the smell of flowers, perfumes and foods can become very unpleasant during this time. additionally, plants and fauna can contain fungal spores that can compromise patients and increase their risk for infection — especially when the patient may need blood and marrow transplant. although flowers are very well-intentioned, the wilting and dying of plants and flowers can induce emotional distress., brighten their day with the delivery of a get well care package for men, women or kids. choose from a variety of thoughtful get well baskets that isn’t full of sugary or salty foods that may not be suitable for a patient's recovery or fruits that may not be fresh. our gift baskets are carefully curated with helpful items for their recovery to help make them more comfortable and activities to keep to help with rehabilitation. games, cards, and drawing help with fine motor skills which is just what the doctor ordered. skincare is such an important part of daily well being so we offer gentle and nourishing lotions, bath treatments and sanitizers., our thoughtful gifts for cancer patients are designed to help someone going through chemo or radiation treatment. we have lots of gift ideas for someone newly diagnosed and even offer a variety of colors to match the cancer ribbon colors., loosing someone or comforting a friend who has lost someone is always difficult.  send a long lasting condolence, sympathy or funeral gifts instead of items that perish or wilt. we have lovely tree gifts that can be planted in memorial as well as beautiful windchimes and planters., in april of 2014, a dear friend, angie st. gelais was hospitalized suddenly and diagnosed with metastatic melanoma. as many of us do, i immediately turned to the internet to order flowers. i was told by friends in the ccu with angie "just don't send flowers". i began researching and discovered that many cancer patients are very sensitive to flowers, fragrances and chemicals... and they don't really want candies/chocolates and other items routinely included in gift baskets due to the nausea often caused by chemotherapy treatment. however, most gift-givers want to send something beautiful that conveys the right sentiment to the patient. from the natural and nourishing skin products, to the useful tote/duffle bags to the jewelry and beautiful empathy cards (designed by a cancer survivor herself) - we hope to help you give the perfect gift, beautifully gift packaged and delivered with care., we may occasionally send coupons, announcements or sale information but we promise we won't blow up your inbox., © 2022 just dont send flowers., categories, account, sign in][just dont send flowers, can cancer patients have flowers?, hospital gift baskets, chemo gifts, sympathy baskets, our story]just dont send flowers | cancer patient gifts | gifts for get well[][create account, sign in, home, get well gifts, gifts for cancer patients, build a get well gift, build a cancer gift, by occasion, greeting cards, about us, bulk orders, cancer ribbon colors, disclaimer, returns/refunds & privacy, shipping /returns terms & conditions, contact us, , search, compare, cart, more, , , , , , about us, bulk orders, cancer ribbon colors, disclaimer, returns/refunds & privacy, shipping /returns terms & conditions, contact us, just dont send flowers, kate spade, michael kors, lindi skin, view all brands, 2749 old monroe rd ste g matthews, nc 28104, call us at (800)828-7251, get well gifts, gifts for cancer patients, build a get well gift, build a cancer gift, by occasion, greeting cards, shop by brands just dont send flowers kate spade michael kors lindi skin view all brands, just dont send flowers, kate spade, michael kors, lindi skin, view all brands, home, categories, account, contact call us at (800)828-7251, call us at (800)828-7251, more, sign in email address: password: forgot your password? create account]