[genetic counselors and advocates spread awareness, share personal stories, and give their best tips in honor of hereditary cancer awareness week., several things can run in the family, including an increased risk of developing cancer. though it’s not exactly the cancer that gets passed down the family tree, but rather a gene mutation that is often the culprit in cases of inherited cancer, according to the american cancer society., in honor of this year’s hereditary cancer awareness week, everyday health hosted a let’s talk about hereditary cancer twitter chat, where experts, patients, and advocates answered our questions on gene mutation, how to talk about it with family, misconceptions surrounding hereditary cancer risk, and more., the chat featured: , for highlights from the #hereditarycancerriskchat, read on., related: speaking genetics: a glossary of cancer risk gene, everyday health: how do you feel about the fact that there’s now a week dedicated to hereditary cancer awareness every year?, nsgc: it’s a great time to pause and celebrate families. many families do not yet know the cancer in their family has an inherited component. creating awareness is extremely important to help others protect their health., oagc: about 5 to 10 percent of all cancers fall into this category, and thus anything that can bring awareness to hereditary cancer is a win and makes me happy., tiffiney carter: i’m so excited that there is a national spotlight highlighting this very important week! so many people are not aware of the hereditary causes related to cancer syndromes other than brca1 and 2 and lynch syndrome. it’s important for the public know., a1 force is very proud to have spearheaded this week of recognition in addition to previvor day! https://t.co/ognn2gklkp #hereditarycancerriskchat, eh: how did you find out you carried a gene variant that put you at elevated risk for cancer? how did it make you feel? scared? validated? empowered? or all of the above?, tiffiney carter: as a genetic counselor (gc), my patients often find out their genetic status by genetic testing through a personal diagnosis of cancer, family member sharing their results, or personal risk assessment., nancy’s point: not surprised, but at same time, surprised. scared, yes. who wouldn't be? lots to process and figure out., my gene counsel: for many people they may also feel shocked, relieved, angry, or sad. whatever you’re feeling is the right feeling! let yourself have those feelings and know that you are supported., a2. a lot of members find out about their gene variant after a diagnosis or through a family member. that’s one of the reasons why the breasties is an all-inclusive community, no matter if you identify as a previvor, survivor, thriver, carevivor #hereditarycancerriskchat, eh: does your family talk openly about their history of cancer or cancer risk? what advice do you have for talking to family members?, my gene counsel: and you thought it was hard to talk about politics with your family! be open, be honest, meet people where they are and at their pace, if possible., brianna majsiak: i think the family conversations are especially tricky. mine had a lot of blocks around this topic because of grief. my older brother has done his testing and keeps up with screenings. hoping my younger brother feels comfortable doing the same., force: genetic testing is a very personal decision. the best you can do is educate your family and empower them to make informed decisions., when sending a letter to relatives, remember to include a copy of the first page of your test result to make it easier for family members to get tested. #hereditarycancerriskchat #gcchat ^jlh https://t.co/iez4qodxyc, eh: what do you wish more people knew or understood about hereditary cancer risk?, dena goldberg: it’s much more common than we once thought and having this information can be lifesaving! also, anyone can have a mutation regardless of their ancestry, so everyone should be offered the opportunity to test!, oagc: i want more people to know you can inherit cancer risk from your mother or your father, regardless of the type of cancer, because you inherit 50 percent of your genetic information from each parent., tiffiney carter: you don’t have to wait until someone else in your family decides to get tested. you can get a risk assessment yourself to determine if you are at increased risk for breast, ovarian, colon cancers, [or others]. you can get tested yourself. ask for gc referral., q4b. genetic testing no longer potentially costs thousands of dollars, most insurance will provide adequate coverage, or many programs/labs have patient assistance programs. #hereditarycancerriskchat, eh: how has knowing that you carry a gene variant that raises your risk for cancer changed your life? what advice would you give to someone who is concerned they carry a variant that raises their risk?, nsgc: meeting with a genetic counselor does not obligate you to have a genetic test. the goal is to understand what the test can or can’t tell you, how to use it in your medical care and make an informed choice about testing., basser center for brca: weighing whether to test or not, and the timing, can be really stressful. if a mutation is present, it's been there all along, however, we would now have the ability to inform risk and care. and this care is only improving the more we innovate., the breasties: talk to fellow community members if you’re feeling overwhelmed, frustrated or confused. there’s a whole community here to support you!, related: 3-time cancer survivor talks about childhood cancer, chemo side effects, and living with tp53, q5 if you're concerned, act. do your research. meet with a genetic counselor and your doc. mull things over. actionable decisions don't have to be made right away. #hereditarycancerriskchat, eh: what resources were most helpful to you when it came to genetic testing?, oagc: genetic counselors are a very helpful resource about genetic testing. to find a gc, go to nsgc.org. force is another amazing hereditary cancer reference: facingourrisk.org., nsgc: @geneticcouns has blogs, podcasts, and educational resources to help you: aboutgeneticcounselors.org and findageneticcounselor.org., brianna majsiak: i found @mygenecounsel to be extremely helpful in keeping up to date on my gene mutation. it’s like a personalized google alert for your genetic testing results., a6b. if you identify as black, @quidditch424 & i are working on a resource for hereditary cancer in the black community. we have a lot of videos on our instagram page (https://t.co/1jqiwtgdm3) and hope to launch our site soon! #hereditarycancerriskchat, by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., pacritinib fills a treatment gap for patients with myelofibrosis and a low platelet count, losing weight might reduce your risk for colon cancer, a new drug may help hard-to-treat ovarian cancer, and more cancer research news from february 2022..., the program aims to slash the cancer death rate by half over the next 25 years., improving arm function after breast cancer surgery, earlier hpv vaccination may offer more protection from cervical cancer, and more cancer news from ..., public figures face a dilemma when diagnosed with cancer: go public or keep it private? how do they make the call?, low white blood counts are among the life-threatening obstacles patients face when receiving chemotherapy. a new drug could change that., a possible vaccine for triple-negative breast cancer, a breast cancer prediction tool for black american women, and more cancer news from october 2021..., receiving a covid-19 vaccination rarely interrupts cancer care, more evidence ties antibiotics to colorectal cancer, and more cancer news from september..., the food and drug administration (fda) is undecided about robotically assisted breast cancer surgery, vitamin d may help prevent early colon cancer, and..., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][everyday health’s hereditary cancer risk twitter chat: here’s what you missed, the latest in cancer, condition kitchen: 3 easy, go-to recipes for people living with cancer, fda approves pacritinib for treatment of myelofibrosis, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for february 2022, biden relaunches cancer moonshot program with pledge to ‘end cancer as we know it’, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for november 2021, celebrities with cancer: why do some go public — and others don’t?, fda rejects promising new drug that prevents low white blood cell counts in patients receiving chemotherapy, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for october 2021, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for september 2021, latest developments in cancer research and treatment for august 2021, cancer risk genes: everything you need to know about brca1 and brca2, what is colon and rectal cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, causes of breast cancer]hereditary cancer awareness week twitter chat | everyday health[basser center for brca, the breasties, brianna majsiak, dena goldberg, force (facing our risk empowered) , my gene counsel, nancy’s point, national society of genetic counselors (nsgc), ohio association of genetic counselors (oagc), tiffiney carter, rel, ated: speaking genetics: a glossary of cancer risk gene, everyday health: how do you feel about the fact that there’s now a week dedicated to hereditary cancer awareness every year?, nsgc:, oagc:, tiffiney carter:, eh:, how did you find out you carried a gene variant that put you at elevated risk for cancer? how did it make you feel? scared? validated? empowered? or all of the above?, tiffiney carter:, nancy’s point:, my gene counsel:, eh:, does your family talk openly about their history of cancer or cancer risk? what advice do you have for talking to family members?, my gene counsel:, brianna majsiak:, force:, eh:, what do you wish more people knew or understood about hereditary cancer risk?, dena goldberg:, oagc:, tiffiney carter:, eh:, how has knowing that you carry a gene variant that raises your risk for cancer changed your life? what advice would you give to someone who is concerned they carry a variant that raises their risk?, nsgc:, basser center for brca:, the breasties:, related:, 3-time cancer survivor talks about childhood cancer, chemo side effects, and living with tp53, eh:, what resources were most helpful to you when it came to genetic testing?, oagc:, nsgc:, brianna majsiak:][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, basser center for brca penn medicine’s resource center specializing in the research and treatment of brca-related cancers (follow @basserbrca), the breasties an online community made up of breast and gynecological cancer patients and survivors (follow @the_breasties), brianna majsiak an editor at everyday health focused on breast and gynecologic cancer, and cofounder of the breasties (follow @brianna_majsiak), dena goldberg a board-certified genetic counselor and educational content creator (follow @denatalksdna), force (facing our risk empowered) a nonprofit dedicated to educating patients and families about hereditary cancer and creator of hereditary cancer awareness week (follow @facingourrisk), my gene counsel an organization, founded by ellen matloff, which provides online genetic counseling to patients (follow @mygenecounsel), nancy’s point an author and brca blogger (follow @nancyspoint), national society of genetic counselors (nsgc) an organization that supports the professional development of genetic counselors (follow @geneticcouns), ohio association of genetic counselors (oagc) an organization that connects and supports professionals in the field of genetics within ohio state (follow @ohiogenetics), tiffiney carter a genetic counselor specializing in cancer genetics (follow @tiffineycarter), about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]