[public figures face a dilemma when diagnosed with cancer: go public or keep it private? how do they make the call?, in the summer of 2020, at age 43, the actor chadwick boseman died of colon cancer. his legacy includes his iconic film work and his reputation as a warm, generous human being., but he also left millions of fans around the world reeling; he had not been public about having any illness, let alone stage 4 cancer., boseman’s original diagnosis was stage 3, in 2016; then the disease recurred. he shared this news with no one besides his family and a small group of close confidants., like many who love his work and mourn his loss, i’ve wondered why boseman chose this level of privacy about his illness., high-profile movies can be expensive to insure, even in everyday circumstances. perhaps, i thought, he feared that if his illness were disclosed, no one could afford to hire him., reading about the circumstances around his passing, i discovered another explanation — one that brought a lump to my throat., several outlets reported that, until very shortly before his death, boseman believed he had far more time to live. he was even, it has been reported, trying to regain the weight he would need to head into production for black panther 2, the sequel to his most famous film., related: the wake-up call about colorectal cancer we didn’t want — but need, i’m personally very aware of the challenges involved in revealing a cancer diagnosis. in 2008, i was diagnosed with stage 2 breast cancer and went through chemotherapy, surgery, and radiation. i too had to choose how, when, and if i wanted to let people know., i told friends and some family members right away, asking relatives i didn’t speak with directly to help me let others know (i have a large extended family). but regarding my office, i decided not to tell colleagues, beyond those in my department, until i was out of the thick of treatment., my diagnosis dominated most aspects of my life, and i saw no reason to engage in further discussion about it while working. i figured it was okay to listen to my gut — which said i did not want to air the details of my private life to a large office in real time. as much as possible, i wanted work to be a “cancer-free zone.”, i barely knew some staff members; and i wasn’t in the office full-time, so my absence for treatments wouldn’t have to be obvious. what would be clear, i realized, was my changed appearance., so i went wig shopping, chose something close to my hair color and length, and hoped for the best. if you squinted hard — and believed i’d decided to cut bangs and invest in regular blowouts — it could have been my hair. eventually, after i completed chemo, i had enough hair regrowth to ditch the wig., one day i sent an office-wide email before leaving work for the evening, stating that i’d look very different the following day — with the bob-style wig replaced by my real-hair crewcut. (i cited a semi-celebrity in the email title, someone whose hairstyle at the time the wig reminded me of. “goodbye to suri cruise’s hair,” i wrote, “and a new hello to my own.”) i explained what had been happening and said i’d welcome any questions., i was ready; and i’ve been open about my experience with cancer ever since. many at work thanked me for my candor, wished me well, and even assured me that my crewcut look was flattering (that was a stretch, but it was kind). some came to me, weeks and months and even years later, with questions about how to help their own relatives or friends who’d been diagnosed with breast cancer., celebrities seem to fall into different camps when it comes to their diagnoses. some announce the news right away, while others, like boseman, choose to keep it quiet. sometimes they explain; sometimes, as in boseman’s case, they don’t, or they never get the chance to., until researching this article, i thought i knew of one case where a celebrity got to “craft” his own illness narrative — and then his death — exactly as he chose., david bowie died of liver cancer in 2016, days after releasing his final album, blackstar. “look up here — i’m in heaven,” bowie sings in “lazarus,” a single from the album. it seemed that he knew what was happening and created blackstar for the world as a gorgeous farewell (like boseman, he kept the news of his illness very private)., but i learned that some of bowie's colleagues said he spoke of making new work just weeks before he died. ivo van hove — who directed bowie’s musical, also called lazarus, in 2015 — told the bbc in a documentary about the musician, “i really am convinced that he was fighting death, and he wanted to continue and continue.”, none of us have complete control when it comes to illness. all we can do is figure out how we want to handle it on any given day, without knowing what the next will bring., here is what i do know: every decision has merit; every choice has strength. the specifics matter less than the goal: a life — including illnesses, setbacks, and crises — that’s as well lived as we can make it., here’s how some celebrities have chosen to navigate a cancer diagnosis — sometimes with explanation, sometimes without., related: 3-time cancer survivor talks about childhood cancer, chemo side effects, and living with tp53, the actor ben stiller was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2016, at age 48, and began to speak publicly about it two years later. he’s now an advocate for issues related to testing for the disease., another actor, richard roundtree, was diagnosed with breast cancer in the early ’90s, when such news was commonly kept under wraps. he disclosed his diagnosis broadly five years later (getting to five years cancer-free is often viewed as an important milestone) — and now works to increase awareness about breast cancer in men., he tells a story of a flight attendant who thanked him for his role in her husband’s health. after reading an article about roundtree, her husband agreed to check out his own breast lump, which he’d been ignoring. the lump was malignant; her husband received successful cancer treatment., related: ‘this is my scar’: how one survivor is fighting the stigma of male breast cancer, the clothing designer betsey johnson was diagnosed with breast cancer in 1999, and told no one but her daughter for an entire year, until she was through with treatment. “my biggest fear,” she told bustle in 2017, “was that people were gonna think i was going to die. that i wasn’t going to pay my bills. that i’m not going to design. that i’m not going to feel good. that it was over.” now johnson designs items tied to fundraising for breast cancer charities and, like stiller and roundtree, is an active advocate., the actor and political activist cynthia nixon kept her breast cancer diagnosis private during her treatment in 2006: “i didn’t want to make it public while i was going through it,” she told nightline in 2008. “i didn’t want paparazzi at the hospital, that kind of thing.” (i wouldn’t have had paparazzi following me, but i totally relate.), related: 20 celebrities with breast cancer, the broadcast journalist joan lunden was diagnosed with breast cancer in june of 2014 — and posed bald for the cover of people magazine that fall. “i posed … because i know there are women out there who will actually say no to chemo because they’re so worried about losing their hair,” she told today in 2017. “that astonishes me, because what’s the alternative?”, related: how to manage the side effects of chemotherapy, michael c. hall did not immediately disclose his hodgkin’s lymphoma diagnosis, which he received while he was filming season 4 of dexter in 2009 — and told the guardian in 2014 that he’d considered keeping it private indefinitely. but he ran into an issue that many in chemo do: eyebrows (the reason my own chosen wig had bangs)., the actor knew that even in a wig like his own hair, he’d look “off” with a lack of brows when he appeared for award shows in 2010. so he announced what was happening and attended the shows with a knit cap on his bald head. “i’m glad i did,” he said, “because i really underestimated how much that would be a source of inspiration or strength to other people.” (not long out of chemo at the time, i was indeed moved by the sight of hall and his cap on tv at the golden globes.), kathy bates’s experience reflects changes in the public approach to cancer. when she had ovarian cancer in 2003, the actor told etonline in 2017, “even my gynecologist, whose husband worked in the business, warned that i shouldn’t come out with it because of the stigma in hollywood.” but seeing etheridge perform bald inspired her greatly — and so, when bates was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2012, she decided to make it public right away., related: ovarian cancer pain: what it feels like, what causes it, and how women manage it, the comedian wanda sykes expressed a specific hesitance — and her trademark humor — about announcing her 2011 diagnosis of breast cancer. “i was like, i don’t know, should i talk about it or what?” she said on the ellen degeneres show later that year., “how many things could i have? i’m black, then lesbian. i can’t be the poster child for everything.” she ended up using the talk show as her vehicle for making the news public. , by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][celebrities with cancer: why do some go public — and others don’t?, celebrities (from left) hugh jackman, chadwick boseman, and wanda sykes each had to navigate the challenging decision of whether or not to share their cancer diagnoses with the public., my own cancer diagnosis … and how, and when, i chose to share it, celebrities and cancer: who chose to go public, why — and when?, is it possible to control your illness narrative as a celebrity?, ben stiller, richard roundtree, betsey johnson, cynthia nixon, melissa etheridge, joan lunden, hugh jackman, michael c. hall, kathy bates, wanda sykes, most recent in cancer, condition kitchen: 3 easy, go-to recipes for people living with cancer, fda approves pacritinib for treatment of myelofibrosis, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for february 2022, biden relaunches cancer moonshot program with pledge to ‘end cancer as we know it’]what celebrities shared their cancer diagnoses? | everyday health[related:, the wake-up call about colorectal cancer we didn’t want — but need, my own cancer diagnosis … and how, and when, i chose to share it, , celebrities and cancer: who chose to go public, why — and when?, is it possible to control your illness narrative as a celebrity?, related:, 3-time cancer survivor talks about childhood cancer, chemo side effects, and living with tp53, related:, ‘this is my scar’: how one survivor is fighting the stigma of male breast cancer, related:, 20 celebrities with breast cancer, related:, how to manage the side effects of chemotherapy, related:, ovarian cancer pain: what it feels like, what causes it, and how women manage it][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]