[as humans, we’re hardwired for connection. belonging to a community makes us feel safe and helps us thrive. but so often, living with type 2 diabetes (t2d) can make you feel physically and emotionally isolated. not only can it be hard to do things you loved before your diagnosis, but it can also feel like no one understands what it’s like. until now. our mission is to cultivate a space powered by the t2d community and empowered by each other. from one-to-one chats to conversation forums, we make connecting easy. this is a safe place to find and receive advice, to seek and offer support, and to discover the authentic stories of members, just like you. bezzy t2d is a free online platform bringing new meaning to the word “community.” our aim is to create an experience where: - everyone feels seen, valued, and understood - everyone’s story matters - shared vulnerability is the name of the game bezzy t2d is a place where you are more than your t2d. it’s a place where, finally, you belong. how it works social-first content like all of your favorite social networks, we’ve designed an activity feed to connect you with other members living with type 2 diabetes. we pride ourselves on making bezzy t2d a safe and secure space where you can join live discussions, connect one-to-one, and read the latest articles and personal stories. live chats need to vent? get advice? share what’s on your mind? hop into a daily live chat to join the conversation. they’re often led by our amazing community guide, but you can also expect to chat with other advocates and experts, too. forums from treatments to symptoms to daily living, t2d changes everything. whatever you're feeling on any given day, there's a forum where you can connect and share directly with others. 1:1 messaging let us connect you with a new member from our community every day. we’ll recommend members to you based on your treatment plan, lifestyle interests, and needs. browse member profiles and request to connect with anyone from our community with members listed as “online now.” discover articles and stories we believe that shared experiences empower the kind of belonging that can help people not only survive—but thrive—with t2d. our stories offer perspectives and tips from people who know what it’s like. get handpicked wellness and member stories delivered to you each week. connect safely anytime, anywhere we take thoughtful steps to build safety, security, and privacy into our platform and foster an environment where members feel safe sharing their personal experiences. check and send messages, see who’s online, and get notified when a new message comes in—so you’ll never miss a thing. about healthline healthline media is the top ranked health publisher and number 44 on comscore’s top 100 property rankings. across all of its properties, healthline media each month publishes up to 1,000 scientifically accurate yet reader-friendly articles authored by more than 120 writers and reviewed by more than 100 doctors, clinicians, nutritionists, and other experts. the company’s repository contains more than 70,000 articles, each updated with current protocol. more than 200 million people worldwide and 86 million people in the u.s. visit healthline’s sites each month, according to google analytics and comscore, respectively., version 8.2.3, we’re always making strides to ensure bezzy t2d is the best version of itself. this update includes: - small updates and bug fixes: optimizations to help improve your experience, 928 ratings, this is such a needed app! having diabetes can be isolating because of all the (unfounded) shame and stigma - and sometimes the existing communities tend to have an air of negativity in them. i’m super excited for this app because it‘a such a beacon of positivity for those of us living with this disease everyday. thank you, healthline!!, thanks for your feedback! we love to hear this., i love the concept of this app. all the people are great and the support from members is phenomenal! but that being said the app itself needs a lot of help. i don’t receive notifications like i should it’s all over the map sometimes yes most times no. there are glitches like you hit on a notification and it goes to a blank screen and sits and flashes. and finally don’t try to search for anything because that is disorganized at best. i went to look for a past post because i needed more information on it a it was nowhere to be found. i had things come up from years ago but never found what i was looking for and that was only posted a few weeks ago. i hope the developers can fix these problems because it would be the most awesome app ever. but am still very grateful for the support of the members., i used this app for a few weeks on my ipad, when i went to use my phone, i couldn’t sign in, after a finding my email domain was missing a letter, i tried to contact the developer to either correct the entry or create a new user i’d, after an ios update i have been unable to use the app again as it has stored my phone number on an account i can’t access. dev still hasn’t contacted me after more than a week since i was locked out. the folks using the app are positive and supportive. wish i could have continued, but i’ll find another group with real developer supporting it. thanks for the good times., the developer, healthline media, inc, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be used to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies:, the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, bezzy ms, bezzy breast cancer, bezzy ibd, bezzy migraine, bezzy ra, bezzy psa, center health—the diabetes app, cornerstones4care®, diabetes logs, diabetes type 2 by nourishly, fresh tri, klinio: diabetes food tracker][bezzy t2d 17+, type 2 diabetes social support, healthline media, inc, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, what a great resource!, developer response ,, a little disappointed, community is great, dev is not, app privacy, data used to track you, data not linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎bezzy t2d on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.7 • 928 ratings, 4.7 • 928 ratings, free, free, iphone, ipad, , , , , , contact info, identifiers, usage data, health & fitness, location, contact info, user content, search history, identifiers, usage data, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]