[the everyday health group (ehg) is a recognized leader in patient and provider education and services attracting an engaged audience of over 60 million health consumers and over 890,000 u.s. practicing physicians and clinicians. our mission is to drive better clinical and health outcomes through decision-making informed by highly relevant information, data, and analytics. we empower healthcare providers, consumers and payers with trusted content and services delivered through everyday health group’s world-class brands., everyday health group is a division of ziff davis. (nasdaq: zd), and is headquartered in new york city.  , wellness inspired. wellness enabled. at everyday health, wellness is viewed through a humanized lens that focuses on one’s physical, emotional, intellectual, social, family and work life. we are committed to providing our audience with trusted, real-world, evidence-based health information, resources, interactive tools, advice and connections to more guided and specialized care and programs from the nation’s leading healthcare providers and patient advocates. visit ehg-consumer.com to learn more., visit site: www.everydayhealth.com , a leader in healthcare provider research and ratings. for more than 25 years, castle connolly has been a trusted source for patients seeking the highest quality care and results. the mission of castle connolly is to help consumers find the best healthcare, through the physician-nominated and well-researched castle connolly top doctor directory. visit ehg-consumer.com to learn more., visit site: www.castleconnolly.com, inspirational thoughts for a happy, healthy, and fulfilling day. dailyom is a market leader for personal development content, offering a universal approach to holistic living for the mind, body, and spirit. over 5 million subscribers enjoy premium online courses in self-improvement, fitness, nutrition, and motivation, designed to deepen their personal development goals. visit ehg-consumer.com to learn more., visit site: www.dailyom.com, helping people thrive. at diabetes daily, we believe that everyone with any type of diabetes can live a healthy, happy and hopeful life. whether you are newly diagnosed, a fifty-year veteran, or supporting a loved one, we are here to help you thrive. we produce educational resources and facilitate an online community to provide you with the knowledge and encouragement you need to achieve your health goals. visit ehg-consumer.com to learn more., visit site: www.diabetesdaily.com, the no. 1 trusted resource for billions of online health searches. everyday health group represents advertising on mayoclinic.org., visit site: www.mayoclinic.org, helping people with migraine to thrive. created by patients, for patients and medically-reviewed by world-leading headache specialists, migraine again has been committed to helping migraine warriors from around the globe suffer less and live more since 2014. visit ehg-consumer.com to learn more., visit site: www.migraineagain.com, the world’s partner in parenting. babycenter is the world’s leading digital parenting resource, reaching millions of new and expectant parents every month in 7 languages through our global websites, mobile apps, online communities, email, and social platforms. our vision: a world of healthy pregnancies, thriving children, and confident parents. visit us at www.ehg-pp.com to learn more., visit site: www.babycenter.com, supporting happy, healthy pregnancies, and happy healthy babies: what to expect is the best-known, most-trusted pregnancy and parenting brand, guiding parents every step of the way. our app and website are produced by founder, heidi murkoff, alongside a team of award-winning journalists, editors, and physicians and other pregnancy and parenting health experts. visit www.ehg-pp.com to learn more. , visit site: www.whattoexpect.com, connecting top employers with top healthcare talent. health ecareers brings together physicians, nurses, nps, pas, and crnas with jobs in every medical specialty. , visit site: www.healthecareers.com, timely clinical intelligence. fresh opinions. hard-hitting investigations. medpage today is a trusted source for clinical news coverage across medical specialties. we cover the clinical and policy news and medical meetings that affect healthcare professionals’ lives and practices throughout the u.s. our enterprise & investigative team works to shine a light on wrongdoing in medicine, whether individual, corporate, or governmental. medpage today also publishes the views of our editorial board, as well as other thought leaders—of today and tomorrow—in healthcare., visit site: www.medpagetoday.com, , improving competency, performance, and quality health outcomes. at prime®, we advance the science of learning and behavior change among providers, patients, payers, and health ecosystems through research-informed education. the scalable and sustainable solutions that prime delivers have measurably improved patient care for the last 28 years. learn more about our publications and awards., visit site: www.primece.com, dan stone president, tom dehn chief financial officer, deborah goetz vice president, human resources, sean alford senior vice president, corporate development ziff davis, george wukoson general counsel, nan k. forte executive vice president and general manager, arefa cassoobhoy, md, mph chief medical editor & vice president of medical affairs, david bernstein chief revenue officer senior vice president, sales & strategic partnerships, steve leibforth managing director castle connolly, heidi cho executive vice president and general manager, michele calhoun global chief revenue officer, christine mattheis vice president, editorial director, jeff blatt executive vice president and general manager, greg chang managing director health ecareers, tony dale senior vice president, sales; chief revenue officer medpage today, chris napolitan managing director prime, rachel warren senior vice president, editorial, everyday health group's pregnancy & parenting division, home to what to expect and babycenter, simplifies the baby registry creation process for millions of expectant parents across popular retailers., , ald is the nation's leader in digital nursing publications with the largest nursing circulation in the u.s., , babycenter was awarded its 12th webby with a win of the 2021 people’s voice webby for websites and mobile sites: lifestyle at the 25th annual webby awards., mm+m salutes the 20 honorees of its inaugural pinnacle awards for their continuing leadership and lasting impact on the health industry., new york--(business wire)--everyday health group, a division of j2 global, inc. (nasdaq: jcom), announced today that it has acquired babycenter, the leading global digital pregnancy and parenting resource, from johnson & johnson consumer inc., an affiliate of johnson & johnson (nyse: jnj)., new content partnership leverages industry-leading content and technology., nearly 1 in 4 u.s. households include a person with migraine, typically someone between the ages of 18 and 44., boston, jan. 19, 2021 /prnewswire/ -- medisafe, a leading digital therapeutics company with seven million registered users, today announced a new initiative with everyday health to launch new condition-specific resource centers through the medisafe platform., dr. patrice harris speaks about what it was like to helm the american medical association for a one-year presidency that ended in june, as well as goals for her new role as medical editor-in-chief of everyday health.  , we created our values together, to embody both our audience goals and our workplace aspirations: to be authentic; to enable wellness; to ignite passion and reimagine possibilities; to be results-driven with a bias toward action; to inspire connectedness; and to promote diversity and create opportunities., ziff davis unequivocally embraces the business and societal imperative to have a diverse and inclusive organization. we bring the same commitment to reducing energy and materials waste across our company, in addition to the environmental benefits promoted by our digital-first businesses. ziff davis employees and board members are charged with conducting the company’s business in accordance with the law and the highest ethical standards. we are committed to diligently managing ziff davis’ affairs consistent with the highest principles of business ethics., at ziff davis, our de&i programs promote diversity and representation within our company and beyond, while our pro-social programs illustrate the actions ziff davis and its businesses are taking to help eradicate racism in the wider world., in 2020, ziff davis businesses enabled substantial paper and water savings through their digital-first solutions. we help our clients, partners and customers be part of the solution., ziff davis’ governance, data security and supplier practices prioritize access to information, a rigorously upheld code of business ethics and conduct by our board and employees, and relationships with vendors and partners who share our values., we are excited to be attracting and retaining stellar talent who share our values. you’ll be joining a passionate team of people and a workplace dynamic of reimagining possibilities., find your career fit today! click below for opportunities. ↓, new york city, 114 fifth avenue, 15th floor new york, ny 10011 phone: 646-728-9500, go to map, asheville, nc, 1111 hendersonville road, suite 201 asheville, nc 28803 phone: 800-497-9907, go to map, mumbai, india, everyday health india pvt. ltd. wework-raheja platinum, 1st floor 01b104, 01b106, 01b107, 01b109,, sag baug road, off andheri - kurla road, marol, andheri (east), mumbai 400059., go to map, denver, co, health ecareers 4600 s syracuse st suite 200 denver, co 888-884-8242, go to map, fort lauderdale, fl, prime education, llc 5900 n andrews ave, suite 500 fort lauderdale, fl 33309 954-718-6055, go to map, san francisco, ca, babycenter 163 freelon street san francisco, ca 94107, go to map, , 114 fifth avenue, 15th floor new york, ny 10011, accessibility statement copyright © 2022 everyday health group. all rights reserved. use of this website is subject to our terms of service and privacy policy.][everyday health group, powerful marketing platforms, world-class brands, consumer, pregnancy & parenting, professional, leadership team, everyday health group, consumer, pregnancy & parenting , professional, in the news, our culture, everyday health group values, doing > talking, everyday health group careers, contact us]everyday health group[everyday health group (ehg), ziff davis, powerful marketing platforms, wellness inspired. wellness enabled. , visit site:, www.everydayhealth.com,  , a leader in healthcare provider research and ratings., visit site:, www.castleconnolly.com, inspirational thoughts for a happy, healthy, and fulfilling day., visit site:, www.dailyom.com, helping people thrive. , visit site:, www.diabetesdaily.com, the no. 1 trusted resource, visit site: , www.mayoclinic.org, helping people with migraine to thrive., visit site:, www.migraineagain.com, the world’s partner in parenting., visit site:, www.babycenter.com, supporting happy, healthy pregnancies, and happy healthy babies:, visit site:, www.whattoexpect.com, connecting top employers with top healthcare talent., visit site:, www.healthecareers.com, timely clinical intelligence. fresh opinions. hard-hitting investigations., visit site:, www.medpagetoday.com, improving competency, performance, and quality health outcomes., visit site:, www.primece.com, dan stone, tom dehn, deborah goetz, sean alford, george wukoson, nan k. forte, arefa cassoobhoy, md, mph, david bernstein, steve leibforth, heidi cho, michele calhoun, christine mattheis, jeff blatt, greg chang, tony dale, chris napolitan, rachel warren, ziff davis, find your career fit today!, new york city, go to map, asheville, nc, go to map, mumbai, india, everyday health india pvt. ltd., go to map, denver, co, health ecareers, go to map, fort lauderdale, fl, prime education, llc, go to map, san francisco, ca, babycenter, go to map, accessibility statement, , terms of service, privacy policy.][]