[internet explorer is no longer supported. please make your donation using a supported browser, such as chrome or edge, or a mobile device with the latest version of a mobile browser., join us on october 18th as we showcase and unite breast cancer survivors and communities from coast to coast during a unique, one-hour broadcast at noon est. be a part of this public celebration and catch highlights from communities and supporters across the nation. contribute or follow along on social media by using #strideslive., from large-scale traditional walks to unique local experiences and celebrations, the american cancer society's making strides against breast cancer has united communities, companies, and individuals across the country in the fight to end breast cancer for more than two decades – and we have no intention of ever slowing down., join the making strides movement to help save lives and fund the future of breast cancer research and programs., funds raised through the making strides movement allow the american cancer society to serve breast cancer patients and their families where and when they need us most – even during a global pandemic., more than $76 million are currently invested in breast cancer research grants., we respond to more than 1.4 million requests for cancer information through our helpline and chat services, and more than 134 million visitors looked to our website for cancer information., through a secure mobile app, we connect those facing breast cancer with trained breast cancer survivors to support them during their journey – anywhere in the country., join us on facebook, youtube or makingstrideswalk.org to be a part of this public celebration and catch highlights from communities and supporters across the nation., sunday, oct. 18 | noon et | 9 am pt, join your community in the movement to save lives and end breast cancer this october. at this time, making strides against breast cancer events will move forward in person, where permitted to do so in accordance with federal, state, and local health guidance and regulations. as the fall season draws closer, event-based decisions may be made to best meet the health and safety needs of our supporters, staff, and volunteers, including adjustments to help mitigate individual and community health risks., once you sign up, you'll recruit your team, fundraise, and keep your team inspired right through october., team leader 101, join your community in taking up the fight to fund the future of breast cancer research and programs. leading up to october, raise funds digitally and easily., sign up, turn your passion into purpose. create your own unique fundraiser to raise money for the fight to end breast cancer., start a fundraiser, help fund the future by making a donation. every dollar fuels the american cancer society’s fight against breast cancer., make a donation, need an event shirt or looking for other ways to bring more pink into your wardrobe?, check out our online store today. proceeds from every purchase will benefit the american cancer society and the fight against breast cancer., click a link below to visit your dashboardthe homepage for that event, this isn’t what i wanted., welcome to our team page. we've formed a team because this cause is important to us. we want to help. and walking and raising money in our local american cancer society making strides against breast cancer event is the best way we can do that. we all have different reasons for participating but we share a determination to help save lives from breast cancer., there are so many ways that the money our team raises helps. it’s helping fund innovative research. it's providing free information for people dealing with the disease. it’s providing rides to treatment and places to stay for people who have to seek treatment far from home. in short, our money is helping save lives. consider donating to our team and helping advance the cause., how we support the american cancer society, of course we walk in the making strides against breast cancer event. and we solicit donations from family, friends, and other supporters. but we also schedule fundraisers in lead-up to the big event. bake-sales, car washes, and countless other types of events. and we promote those on social media, through facebook and twitter, by word of mouth, and through flyers at work and around the neighborhood. the success of fundraising events depends on two things - hard work and getting the word out. and we're out to do both. keep an eye out for our fundraising events., join us. donate today. or walk with us., this tool allows event managers to edit sections of the event website. here’s how:, it’s that easy! throughout the year, we’ll unlock more sections and add features to this tool in order to improve your ability to manage your event website., visit helpme2.cancer.org/event-support/msabc.html for website management resources.][strides live across america, making strides is reuniting forces across the country!, our community update, your session has expired due to inactivity.]| american cancer society[strides live across america, save the date, movement near you, participant or team, lead a team, sign up, fundraise, donate, people will be diagnosed with breast cancer, breast cancer survivors living in the us today, currently invested in breast cancer research, partners, how we support the american cancer society][learn about strides, get involved, fundraising, donate, sign up, español, what is strides?, find a walk, volunteer at strides, why we fundraise, about us, cancer prevention, cancer facts, american cancer society, contact acs, site map, privacy, terms of use, site comments, site map, privacy, terms of use, site comments, when you see the edit pencil icon, click it to enable edit mode for that section of the page., use the in-line editor controls to make changes to the section., use the save icon to save your changes and exit edit mode.]