[15% off all amoena® products! one week only! use code am15 at checkout!, “tlc” tender loving care, 15% off all amoena® products! one week only! use code am15 at checkout!, “tlc”, tender loving care, “tlc”, tender loving care, your cart is empty, excludes applicable taxes and shipping, one week only!, enter code am15 at checkout!, wigs & more, while losing one’s hair may be upsetting, many women enjoy trying styles and colors in a wig they would never have dared to try with their own hair. some women buy more than one wig and change wigs to suit their mood, their outfit, or the occasion. in fact, many women continue wearing their wig(s) after their hair grows back. we’ve got many great brands and styles to choose from., "tlc"™, vivica a. fox™, raquel welch®, gabor®, henry margu®, while losing one’s hair may be upsetting, many women enjoy trying styles and colors in a wig they would never have dared to try with their own hair. some women buy more than one wig and change wigs to suit their mood, their outfit, or the occasion. in fact, many women continue wearing their wig(s) after their hair grows back. we’ve got many great brands and styles to choose from., headwear, we offer a wide selection of hats, scarves and turbans that provide a comfortable and attractive alternative to wigs for those dealing with hair loss., spring/summer hats, turban plus®, sleep caps, scarves, turbans & headwraps, we offer a wide selection of hats, scarves and turbans that provide a comfortable and attractive alternative to wigs for those dealing with hair loss., mastectomy products, fashionable, pretty and affordable! our mastectomy products restore your natural shape helping you feel good and look good. with so many styles to choose from it’s easy to find what works best for you., mastectomy bras, amoena™, swimwear, post-surgical support, silicone breast forms, fashionable, pretty and affordable! our mastectomy products restore your natural shape helping you feel good and look good. with so many styles to choose from it’s easy to find what works best for you., shop our latest ecatalog!, "tlc" tender loving care is a not-for-profit website and catalog of the american cancer society., sign up here to receive email updates, see our new arrivals, and enjoy exclusive offers., privacy pledge, request a catalog, 1-800-850-9445, about us, privacy pledge, privacy policy, customer quotes, ecatalog, full refund up to 60 days, for any reason or no reason at all. clearance items are final sale., contact us, order status, shipping info, returns, digital gift cards, my account, catalog requests, site map, reach to recovery, hope lodge, rides to treatment, online support community, american cancer society greeting cards, ©2021 tlc® a service of the american cancer society®. all rights reserved., “tlc”, tender loving care, how to measure for a proper fit, did you know that a woman's bra size can fluctuate from year to year and sometimes even month to month? on average, you should measure yourself at least once a year but more frequently if you go up or down a size in your regular clothing. that's why it's important to know how to property measure yourself, so you can choose a comfortable bra with confidence; a bra that will look great an feel good!, choosing a bra that gives you the comfort you need will be a breeze when you fllow these few simple steps, so let's get started!, there are two aspects to finding your correct bra size and they are band size and cups size. the band size is the size of the bra brand around the torso. the cup size is the circumference measured around the bust over the fullest part of the breast., first you'll need a standard tape measure. you should be able to find one at your local sewing store or even at your local drug store. it's inexpensive and handy to have around. second, you'll need to put a comfortable, well-fitting, non-padded bra., step 1 - measure your band size (under breast), with your bra and starting at zero on the tape measure place it directly undermeath the breast where the bra band sits. make sure that the measuring tap runs horizintally around the upper body and is at the same height in the front and the back. the measuring tap should provides 90% of your support. if it's not tight enough your bra band will be loose and will not be supportive enough. (you may want to enlist the help of a close friend to help, if you need help.), measure underearth the bust line from the center breastbone in the front all the way around., ,  , write down the nmber of inches. if that number is a fration, round it up to the next whole number.,  , step 2 - measure your cup size (over breast), mext! you're going to measure your half-chest circumference. make sure that the measuring tape runs horizontally around the upper body and is at the same height in the front and the back of the body. starting at zero on the tape measure, position the tape measure at the center the spine in the back then loosely wrap the tape measure over the fullest part of your breast directly above the nipple., write down the munber of inches, then double that number. if that number is a fraction, round it up to the next whole number.,  , step 3 - calculate your cup size, numw, subtract your brand size measurement from your cup size measurement and that will give you your cup size., cup size for a double mastectomy would be the same at that wom prior to surgery. if you want to go larger or smaller, select one size above or below your previous size., ,  , step 4 - determine your bra size, finally, all you need to do is combine the cup size with your brand measure to determine your bra size. for example, 38b means you have a 38-inch band and a b cup.,  , how to know when your bra is a good fit, now that you know how to determine your bra size here are a few helpful hints on how to know when your bra is a good fit:, tip: because cup size can fluctuate base on weight change, hormonal changes, bloting, or further surgery try to check your bra size from time to time. also, try to measure on a day when your breast feels relatively normal. many women buy a bra style that they love in two sizes - one size for regular days and a size up for days when they feel a little fuller, that way they can avoid the discomfort of having to squeeze themselves into a bra that's temporarily too small., now that we've got the technical stuff out of the way, let's move on to chooseing a wonderful new bra!,  , , (customer can use a string if they don't have a tape measure to measure around the head and put it on a ruler.), start in front at your natural hairline and follow to nape of neck in back and all the way around to starting point., with hair lying flat, measure from natural hairline in front, over your head and to the nape of neck., start in front of ear where hairline ends. bring tape measure over head to front of other ear., important notes: to measure accurately, wet hair to flatten as much as possible. if measurements don't exactly match those on size chart, choose size closest to largest measurement. velcro® tabs inside each wig can adjust circumference up to 5" larger or smaller to ensure a secure fit.,  , our mastectomy bras restore your natural shape and will hold your breast form(s) securely in place. helping you feel confident and always looking great!, our everyday bras. the “tlc” everyday collection combines all the style and comfort you would expect from beautiful lingerie with smart design features that ensure all day comfort. our most popular bras are the:, our leisure bras.made of soft, breathable materials for all day comfort, and easy fastening for putting on and taking off. this style is ideal for wearing to bed or relaxing at home. our amoena® collection has many styles of seamless, lightweight, and comfortable bras. two of our customer favorites are the:, our customized bras. our especially for you bras are custom made just for you! available in 7 of our best-selling styles. just tell us which side(s) to fill! we use tiny lightweight beads that will mold naturally to your body so there’s no need for a breast form. with an especially for you bra, you can just put it on and go! here is a list of 7 that we can tailor just for you:, buy enough to last. depending on how often it’s worn and washed, the average bra can last between 6 months to a year before needing to be replaced. consider investing in two or three styles, so you’ll have lots of choice throughout the year., we offer an amazing collection of stylish, beautiful and affordable post mastectomy bras. with so many styles to choose from, it’ll be easy to find your new favorite bra in no time!,  , click here for our article on how to measure for a proper fit., , , , , , ][menu, shopping cart, , , , , 15% off all amoena® products!, eat healthy and get active, eat healthy, get active, take control of your weight, “tlc” tender loving care, email to a friend, how to find your correct head size., size chart, email to a friend, ]tlc direct - cancer wigs, breast forms, chemo scarves, cancer hats[am15, “tlc”, am15, “tlc”, “tlc”, , , , , am15, wigs & more, headwear, mastectomy products, “tlc”, how to measure for a proper fit, step 1 - measure your band size (under breast), step 2 - measure your cup size (over breast), step 3 - calculate your cup size, step 4 - determine your bra size, tip, 1. measure circumference., 2. measure front to back., 3. measure side to side., important notes:, wig size, 1. circumference, 2. front to back, 3. ear to ear, how to measure for a proper fit.][wigs & more, headwear, mastectomy products, specialty shops amoena® collection chemo beanie® collection gabor® wig collection henry margu® wig collection hairdo® wig collection raquel welch® wig collection turban plus® collection vivica a. fox® wig collection, amoena® collection, chemo beanie® collection, gabor® wig collection, henry margu® wig collection, hairdo® wig collection, raquel welch® wig collection, turban plus® collection, vivica a. fox® wig collection, specials, clearance, ecatalog, request a catalog, 1-800-850-9445, login, 7fd76cc3-a81f-4677-b45b-43711cea0420 created with sketchtool.   1-800-850-9445, request a catalog, account, wigs & more, headwear, mastectomy products, specialty shops amoena® collection chemo beanie® collection gabor® wig collection henry margu® wig collection hairdo® wig collection raquel welch® wig collection turban plus® collection vivica a. fox® wig collection, amoena® collection, chemo beanie® collection, gabor® wig collection, henry margu® wig collection, hairdo® wig collection, raquel welch® wig collection, turban plus® collection, vivica a. fox® wig collection, specials, clearance, ecatalog, amoena® collection, chemo beanie® collection, gabor® wig collection, henry margu® wig collection, hairdo® wig collection, raquel welch® wig collection, turban plus® collection, vivica a. fox® wig collection, excludes applicable taxes and shipping, $0.00 sub total, checkout, wigs, "tlc"™ wig collection, vivica a. fox™ wig collection, raquel welch® wig collection, gabor® wig collection, henry margu® wig collection, hairdo® wig collection, hair pieces, wig essentials, length, short wigs, mid-length wigs, long wigs, fibers, synthetic hair, natural hair, monofilament hair, wigs "tlc"™ wig collection vivica a. fox™ wig collection raquel welch® wig collection gabor® wig collection henry margu® wig collection hairdo® wig collection, "tlc"™ wig collection, vivica a. fox™ wig collection, raquel welch® wig collection, gabor® wig collection, henry margu® wig collection, hairdo® wig collection, hair pieces, wig essentials, , length short wigs mid-length wigs long wigs, short wigs, mid-length wigs, long wigs, fibers synthetic hair natural hair monofilament hair, synthetic hair, natural hair, monofilament hair, , headwear, sleep caps, turbans & headwraps, spring/summer hats, fall/winter hats, all headwear, headwear accessories, scarves, swim caps, brands, chemo beanie® collection, turbans plus® collection, headwear sleep caps turbans & headwraps spring/summer hats fall/winter hats all headwear, sleep caps, turbans & headwraps, spring/summer hats, fall/winter hats, all headwear, , headwear accessories, scarves, swim caps, brands chemo beanie® collection turbans plus® collection, chemo beanie® collection, turbans plus® collection, , bras and more, post-surgical support, mastectomy bras, customized mastectomy bras, camisoles & tanks, swimwear, breast forms, foam forms, silicone breast forms, lumpectomy & reconstruction forms, brands, amoena™ collection, medical alert products, bras and more post-surgical support mastectomy bras customized mastectomy bras camisoles & tanks swimwear, post-surgical support, mastectomy bras, customized mastectomy bras, camisoles & tanks, swimwear, breast forms foam forms silicone breast forms lumpectomy & reconstruction forms, foam forms, silicone breast forms, lumpectomy & reconstruction forms, , brands amoena™ collection, amoena™ collection, medical alert products, , specialty shops, amoena® collection, chemo beanie® collection, gabor® wig collection, henry margu® wig collection, hairdo® wig collection, raquel welch® wig collection, turban plus® collection, vivica a. fox® wig collection, specialty shops amoena® collection chemo beanie® collection gabor® wig collection henry margu® wig collection hairdo® wig collection raquel welch® wig collection turban plus® collection vivica a. fox® wig collection, amoena® collection, chemo beanie® collection, gabor® wig collection, henry margu® wig collection, hairdo® wig collection, raquel welch® wig collection, turban plus® collection, vivica a. fox® wig collection, , 3eb7cb47-4ee3-49c4-90fd-41f927c006f5 created with sketchtool. privacy pledge, 0c2a7be7-05f0-4ba5-8190-65d19fc619a3 created with sketchtool. request a catalog, 35bd9844-eaa5-474c-aedf-cbfb1456e02e created with sketchtool. 1-800-850-9445, about us, privacy pledge, privacy policy, customer quotes, ecatalog, 0bea154e-730f-4691-989b-8d924a9f14ff created with sketchtool. the “tlc” guarantee full refund up to 60 days, for any reason or no reason at all. clearance items are final sale., contact us, order status, shipping info, returns, digital gift cards, my account, catalog requests, site map, reach to recovery, hope lodge, rides to treatment, online support community, american cancer society greeting cards, phone: 1-800-850-9445, email : customerservice@tlcdirect.org, tlc c/o eagle one p.o. box 62244 cincinnati, oh 45262, the cups are smooth and the edges lie flat against your chest., the straps stay in place and don't dig into your shoulders., the center section lies flat., the bra is snug and low in the back., amoena® mara t-shirt bra (# 9116) features soft, silky microfiber pockets that feel wonderful against the skin., lace accent pocketed bra (# 7288) features a pretty overlay lace and a wide range of sizes from 32a to hard-to-find 38 – 48 ddd. available in 7 beautiful colors!, mastectomy camisole bra (# 7580) features a lace insert which looks like a traditional camisole top when seen under clothes and provides a little extra neckline coverage, should you need it., amoena® becky bra (# 8724) provides ultra-comfort and wearability without wires, seams or closures. it’s invisible under clothing and suitable as a sleep bra!, amoena® frances bra (# 8528) designed to meet the specific needs of women immediately following breast surgery, in hospital, and after returning home. super comfy and perfect for sleeping in. available in 9 wonderful colors and prints!, long line especially for you bra (# 8324), full figure especially for you bra (# 8556), lace microfiber especially for you bra (# 8554), lace accent especially for you bra (# 8286), lace camisole especially for you bra (# 8288), amoena® mara t-shirt especially for you bra (# 9117), leisure camisole front closure especially for you bra (# 8557)]