[estrone, estradiol, and estriol are the three main types of estrogen., estrogen is a group of hormones produced by a woman's ovaries and, to a lesser degree, by the adrenal glands, fat tissues, and a man's testes. it is considered a sex hormone because it is produced by the reproductive organs and affects these organs, too. (1), both men and women produce estrogen, but it's usually considered a "female hormone" because men have smaller amounts in their bodies., estrogen flows through the bloodstream and binds to estrogen receptors on cells. the hormone has effects on the brain, bone, liver, heart, skin, and other tissues in the body, and regulates metabolic processes, such as cholesterol levels. (2,3), estrone, estradiol, and estriol are the three main types of estrogen., estrogen helps initiate physical changes that happen to girls during puberty, such as the start of their menstrual cycles and developing secondary sex characteristics, including breasts and body hair. (2), estrogen helps regulate the menstrual cycle during a woman's childbearing years and controls the growth of the uterine lining., estradiol is most common in women of childbearing age. during pregnancy, estriol is produced by the placenta, and estrone is the only hormone your body produces after menopause (when you no longer get your period). (3), in men, estrogen is important to the growth of healthy bones and the development of the male reproductive system. however, not much more is known about estrogen's role in men. (3), as women reach menopause (when they stop menstruating), the ovaries begin to produce less estrogen. (3), when this happens, your doctor may recommend taking prescription estrogen to help with severe menopausal symptoms, such as:, your doctor may also prescribe estrogen if:, when men don't have enough estrogen, they can carry excess belly fat and experience low sexual desire., estrogen usually comes as a tablet that you'll take by mouth, with or without food., your dose and how often you take it will depend on your reason for taking it., talk with your doctor or pharmacist if you have any questions about how you should take your estrogen., tell your doctor if you experience any of the following side effects: (1), call your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following serious side effects:, concerns about hormone therapy began in the early 2000s when the women’s health initiative (whi) study reported a link between combined estrogen and progestin and an increased risk of breast cancer and cardiovascular disease. the study also stated that hormone therapy caused more harm than good in postmenopausal women, showing that estrogen alone appeared to be related to an increased risk of stroke and was not beneficial for coronary artery disease. (4), whi alarmed the medical community in 2002 with study results in the journal of the american medical association (jama) reporting that, after following participants for a mean of five years, the researchers had stopped the estrogen-plus-progestin portion of their study prematurely because the excess risk of breast cancer facing the women taking the drugs made it unethical to continue. (5), then, two years later, the estrogen-only study was also stopped ahead of time, because it also uncovered an increased risk of blood clots. for these women, though, there was no significant increase in breast cancer risk. (6), more current analyses do not show these risks to be associated (or present) with hormone therapy, including a follow-up study published in september 2017 in jama. the study found that neither estrogen-plus-progestin taken for a median of 5.6 years, nor estrogen alone taken for a median of 7.2 years, was associated with increased risk of all-cause, cardiovascular, or cancer mortality during a cumulative follow-up of 18 years. (7), given the concerns and past controversy surrounding hormone therapy, talk with your doctor about whether this treatment is a good option for you., women can have too much estrogen (often referred to as estrogen dominance). when this happens, the following can occur: (3), when men's estrogen levels are too high, they can have enlarged breasts (gynecomastia), infertility, and difficulty maintaining an erection. (3), based on what your doctor determines is causing your high estrogen levels, he or she may prescribe a medication, suggest surgery, or recommend dietary changes to help lower your estrogen levels., in addition to oral contraception for birth control, your doctor may prescribe one made with estrogen to help relieve menstrual cramps and some perimenopausal symptoms or to regulate periods if you have polycystic ovarian syndrome (pcos). additionally, there is some research that reports birth control pills may reduce the risk of ovarian, uterine, and colorectal cancer. (8), forms of birth control with estrogen protect you from getting pregnant by doing the following:, birth control pills contain estrogen in combination with a form of progesterone. depending on the brand of oral contraceptive, the medications and dose may vary, and may be taken differently. they also may have different risks and benefits. (8), the vaginal ring (nuvaring) contains estrogen and progestin and is inserted inside your vagina. the ring needs to be replaced monthly. take note that not having the ring inside your vagina for more than 48 hours during the weeks you should be wearing it means you are not fully protected from getting pregnant. (9), the ring may not be as effective if you take any of the following:, the ring can cause the following side effects:, the birth control skin patch works like the other forms of birth control in that it contains estrogen and progestin., the patch is worn on your belly, upper arm, butt, or back, and is replaced every week for three weeks. then you don't wear the patch for a week, and repeat the cycle., if you take any of the medications or supplements listed above under the vaginal ring, the patch may be less effective., additionally, using the patch may cause the same side effects as the ring. (10), by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., references, , sources, , a draft opinion from the u.s. supreme court strikes down the federal right to abortion guaranteed by the 1973 decision in roe v. wade and would leave ..., research finds that female pattern hair loss is common and associated with lower self-esteem., new research has found that women who were taking estrogen were less likely to die of covid-19 than women with natural estrogen levels., top risk factors include overweight or obesity, high blood pressure, and diabetes., experts say links between menstrual disorders and metabolic health often overlooked., a new study confirms that sexual dysfunction in midlife women is linked to poor sleep quality., one in 2 women may develop hypertension, or high blood pressure, before age 60. but a group of european doctors warn that many of these women may miss..., a diet with more fiber-rich fruits, vegetables, and whole grains may promote mental well-being in women, suggests new research., new findings suggest that doctors who treat women have significant knowledge gaps that could compromise the care of this debilitating condition., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][what is estrogen?, there are three main types of estrogen, estrogen replacement therapies, taking prescription estrogen, estrogen and potential side effects, concerns about hormone replacement therapy, when you have too much estrogen, health benefits from the estrogen in hormonal birth control, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in women's health, is this the end of roe v. wade? what would a scotus decision mean for reproductive health?, more than half of women over age 50 have thinning hair, hormone replacement therapy may reduce the risk of covid-19 death in post-menopausal women, more than half of u.s. women have poor heart health before pregnancy, new study shows increased risk of heart disease and diabetes in women with irregular periods, menopausal symptoms may predict risk of heart, memory trouble: nams 2021 news, to boost your sex life, try getting better sleep, hypertension symptoms often mistaken for menopause in middle-aged women, a high-fiber diet may help lower depression risk, migraine: what your doctor doesn’t know, birth control resource center, timing and type of hormone therapy impacts its effectiveness in preventing heart disease, menstrual cycle length during menopausal transition may influence later heart disease]estrogen: essential hormone facts | everyday health[there are three main types of estrogen, estrogen replacement therapies, taking prescription estrogen, estrogen and potential side effects, concerns about hormone replacement therapy, when you have too much estrogen, health benefits from the estrogen in hormonal birth control, birth control pills, the vaginal ring, the birth control skin patch , references, sources][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, hot flashes, excessive sweating, night sweats, chills, faintness, dizziness, your body isn't producing enough estrogen during puberty., you have vulvar atrophy (a genital skin condition)., you have atrophic vaginitis (inflammation of the vagina)., you have female hypogonadism (ovaries don't produce enough hormones)., you have turner syndrome (a genetic condition that affects physical development)., your ovaries have been removed., you're at risk for or have osteoporosis (weak, porous bones) after menopause., you're being treated for prostate cancer., you're transitioning or have transitioned from male to female., upset stomach, vomiting, symptoms of a common cold, heartburn, gas, diarrhea, constipation, weight changes, leg cramps, burning or tingling in the arms or legs, muscle tightness, dizziness, hair loss, unusual hair growth, darkening of skin on face, irritation from wearing contact lenses, breast pain or tenderness, swelling, redness, burning, itching, or irritation of the vagina, vaginal discharge, change in sexual desire, nervousness, depression, bulging eyes, yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice), stomach pain, swelling, or tenderness, loss of appetite, sore throat, fever, chills, cough, or other signs of infection, weakness, joint pain, uncontrollable movements, rash or blisters, severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) which is often accompanied by hives, difficulty breathing, feeling faint, and nausea or vomiting, hives, itching, swelling of the eyes, face, tongue, throat, hands, arms, feet, ankles, or lower legs, hoarseness, difficulty breathing or swallowing, weight gain, typically in your waist, hips, and thighs, light or heavy bleeding during your periods, intensified premenstrual syndrome (pms) symptoms, fibrocystic breasts (noncancerous breast lumps), fibroids (noncancerous tumors) in the uterus, tiredness and fatigue, loss of sexual desire, feeling depressed or anxious, thickening the mucus in your cervix, making it hard for sperm to get to the uterus and fertilize an egg, stopping your body from ovulating, thinning the lining of your uterus, antibiotics such as rifampin, rifampicin, and rifamate, antifungal griseofulvin, some hiv medications, some antiseizure and mental health medications, st john’s wort, back and jaw pain, stomach pain, nausea, sweating, and breathing difficulties, chest pain or discomfort, intense headache, vision problems, such as seeing flashes, yellowing of the skin or eyes, estrogen. mayo clinic. march 1, 2017., estrogen. healthy women., what does estrogen do? hormone health network., women's health initiative (whi). national heart, lung and blood institute., writing group for the women’s health initiative investigators. risks and benefits of estrogen plus progestin in healthy postmenopausal women: principal results from the women's health initiative randomized controlled trial. . july 17, 2002., the history of hormone treatment in menopause. our bodies, ourselves. december 4, 2014., manson je, aragaki ak, rossouw je, et al. menopausal hormone therapy and long-term all-cause and cause-specific mortality. jama. september 12, 2017., estrogen and progestin (oral contraceptives). medlineplus. july 30, 2018., birth control ring. planned parenthood., birth control patch. planned parenthood., the menopause years. american college of obstetricians and gynecologists (acog). may 2015., gorney c. the estrogen dilemma. new york times. april 14, 2010., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]