[pain from ovarian cancer can be subtle or extensive, but there are pain management strategies that can help., ovarian cancer is often caught in later, more advanced stages because there are often few symptoms early on in the course of the disease. unfortunately, late-stage ovarian cancer can cause pain and discomfort. and although treatment often helps alleviate pain, some therapies may actually add to the discomfort. if you find yourself in this situation, there are ways you can ease the pain., the good news: your ovarian cancer healthcare team will be very familiar with anything you face. and, in most cases, there are pain management techniques that can be tailor-made to deal with most, if not all, situations., in its earliest stages, ovarian cancer may cause no symptoms or only mild ones. these symptoms include bloating, pelvic or abdominal pain, trouble eating or feeling full quickly, and urinary urgency, according to the national ovarian cancer coalition. ovarian cancer pain may also extend into the back, cause pain during sex, and, in advanced stages, cause leg pain., related: 6 ways to ease painful sex during and after menopause, ovarian cancer pain can be tough to identify initially. “women often report that they feel vague pelvic pain that feels like a little pressure. this pressure [generally] comes and goes,” says marilyn huang, md, ms, co-director of translational gynecologic oncology research at the university of miami sylvester comprehensive cancer center., “the ovary moves based on our movement and relaxes when we aren’t as active, and so sometimes women feel better when they slow down,” she says. as such, discomfort waxes and wanes, which also makes seeking doctor care more complicated — it’s easy to convince yourself that it’s nothing or, if you don’t have “stabbing” or intense pain, that it’s no big deal at all., women may experience different types of pain due to ovarian cancer: vague feelings of discomfort, sharp or shooting pains, a sensation of bloating, or dull and constant aches in the bones. some women may not have any pain at all until their cancer is in a more advanced stage, says carmel cohen, md, professor emeritus of obstetrics, gynecology, and reproductive science at the icahn school of medicine at mount sinai in new york., advanced ovarian cancer can lead to issues that create pain because the tumor has grown. “the pain has to do either with invasion of bone, or intestinal obstruction and bowel dysfunction related to the expansion of the disease, which produces a blocked or kinked bowel,” says cohen. “that’s usually a very late event in the course of ovarian cancer. it’s controlled with pain medication the same way that one would receive pain medication for any other significant amount of pain.”, related: ovarian cancer: what are the signs and symptoms of ovarian cancer?, when ovarian cancer is diagnosed, treatment of the disease is the first course of action to fight the cancer and try to alleviate pain. but disease management also includes pain medication to keep the pain under control., the pain management strategy will depend on the symptoms. “a lot of patients do not have sharp, intense pain, so most do not require narcotics,” says huang. cohen strongly recommends that women talk about pain management with their healthcare providers early and often. if pain becomes considerable, they should not try to self-medicate, he says. “they should consult a physician,” says cohen, so that their doctor can determine the most appropriate way to treat and manage it., in one study published in the march/april issue of cancer nursing, patients reported using 5 different physical and emotional coping strategies, including actively managing and planning for the pain, relaxation, and distraction. the authors conclude that women should try a range of strategies to cope with the pain in order to find what works for them., at times, the treatments for ovarian cancer can seem worse than the disease. surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy — each of these carries with it a set of possible side effects and complications, not the least of which can be pain., pain management depends on the cause of pain, says huang. for instance, if you had surgery to remove one or both ovaries (called an oophorectomy) or a hysterectomy, which involves removal of the uterus, then management includes treating post-operative pain, such as incisional pain. “this may include a combination of nsaids (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) and small doses of narcotics as needed,” says huang., women with advanced disease may also need neoadjuvant therapies (therapies given before surgery), says huang. this is done to reduce the size of the tumor and make it smaller and easier to remove. chemotherapy may also be used after surgery to prevent its spread. however, chemotherapy can also cause neuropathic (nerve) pain., in one study, 51 percent of women who received chemotherapy reported “a little” or “very much” peripheral neuropathy (tingling in hands and feet or numbness in fingers and toes) up to 12 years after treatment versus 27 percent of women who didn’t get chemo, per gynecologic oncology in december 2014. neuropathic pain can be managed with medications like gabapentin, lyrica (pregabalin), and irenka (duloxetine), says huang., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., it’s important to know your ovarian cancer risk when family planning and how a prior diagnosis can affect fertility., effective ovarian cancer treatment requires a cooperative approach. learn about the key healthcare providers who should be on your team., whether you’re in the middle of treatment for ovarian cancer or trying to get your strength back after you’ve completed it, a yoga routine may be just..., new treatments for advanced ovarian cancer are helping some women defy the odds. here’s how one 78-year-old and her doctors have kept hope alive for a..., a pelvic exam is usually the first step, followed by blood tests, imaging tests, and surgery., treated at its earliest stage, ovarian cancer has a high survival rate. but women and their doctors often fail to recognize the symptoms, leading to missed..., does using talcum powder raise your risk of ovarian cancer? does having a hysterectomy mean you can’t get the disease? here, an faq., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][ovarian cancer pain: what it feels like, what causes it, and how women manage it, where does ovarian cancer cause pain?, is ovarian cancer pain constant, or does it come and go?, what does ovarian cancer pain feel like?, are there treatment and medication options to help manage pain?, what if the treatment is causing pain?, the latest in ovarian cancer, finding a cancer diagnosis and coping with infertility, ovarian cancer and pregnancy: what you need to know, meet your ovarian cancer healthcare team, yoga for ovarian cancer: poses that benefit your health during and after treatment, ovarian cancer awareness month: september 2020, ovarian cancer survivor stories, ovarian cancer: how is ovarian cancer diagnosed?, your everyday guide to living well with ovarian cancer, with ovarian cancer, early detection is key. why is it so hard?, 6 common questions about ovarian cancer, answered, 5 breast cancer long-haulers give advice to the newly diagnosed, how will my colon cancer be treated?, ovarian cancer: myths vs. facts]managing ovarian cancer pain | everyday health[where does ovarian cancer cause pain?, is ovarian cancer pain constant, or does it come and go?, what does ovarian cancer pain feel like?, are there treatment and medication options to help manage pain?, what if the treatment is causing pain?][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]