[is your belly bulging after all that holiday food? follow these quick tips from health experts to find relief., is the holiday season bringing out your extra-indulgent side? it happens — and you may end your holiday dinner feeling like your belly’s bulging from all that food., does it seem like your stomach just tripled in size? rest assured, that’s not the case, according to brigham and women’s hospital. rather, it’s likely just gas. “it's caused by excess air or gas in the gastrointestinal tract,” says rachel doyle, rdn, the chicago-based owner of rad nutrition who focuses on gut health. “when we eat, carbohydrates are broken down, and their fiber is fermented, producing gas that expands, which can lead to bloating.”, unpleasant as it is, it’s generally not something to worry about. “typically, bloating is not a sign of anything serious, especially if it is only occurring after large meals,” says pam fullenweider, rd, the founder of fully mediterranean in houston., related: 11 best and worst foods for boosting metabolism, if it’s chronic, however, visit your healthcare provider to rule out something more serious. “if you are experiencing bloating frequently, it’s always a good idea to explore this further with a doctor or dietitian to determine the root cause and rule out any underlying medical conditions,” fullenweider says., even your run-of-the-mill bloating can be a pain, though. the good news is you don’t have to just sit uncomfortably and wait it out. follow these seven quick tips to get rid of bloating and return to the holiday merriment., drinking water is probably the last thing you want to do when you feel like your belly is about to explode. but “hydration is so important for minimizing bloating,” doyle says. “it keeps everything moving along smoothly in your digestive tract, which is essential for regular bowel movements — and constipation and bloating often go hand in hand.”, bloating is often the result of eating high-salt foods. sodium brings on the bloat, likely because it causes water retention, according to harvard health publishing. the goal with drinking water after the meal is to offset that sodium and encourage your body to give up fluids. “while it may seem counterintuitive, drinking water may help to reduce bloat by ridding the body of excess sodium,” fullenweider says. another tip: be sure to drink plenty of water before your meal too. this step offers the same bloat-minimizing effect and can also prevent overeating, according to the mayo clinic., related: 6 unusual signs of dehydration you should know about, “rather than heading straight for the couch after a big meal, get some movement in,” fullenweider says. “going for a short walk can help stimulate gastric motility and reduce bloating.” research has shown that a walk after a meal helps accelerate gastric emptying. five or 10 minutes should be enough to help you find relief, doyle says. you’re even better off if exercise is a regular part of your routine. according to temple health, exercising regularly can help keep the walls of your large intestine toned so stool can pass easily., you might be tempted to pour yourself another drink after dinner, but that won’t help your swollen stomach. “alcohol can slow digestion and increase water retention,” fullenweider says. according to the nonprofit christian healthcare system providence, alcohol initially will make you have to urinate more, and eventually it can make the body dehydrated. dehydration tells the body to hang onto water, and then you end up with that puffy-belly feeling. so skip the post-meal cocktail for now (or just have one). ultimately, to keep belly bloat to a minimum, you’re better off sticking with water., related: 6 smart tips for staying hydrated throughout the day, you may think sipping a carbonated beverage, like seltzer or soda, will make you feel better by inducing burping, but all it does is add gas to your system. the bubbles are to blame. when they get trapped in your belly, you get bloated, according to providence., to keep belly bloat at bay, reach for peppermint, ginger, or fennel tea, doyle says. “these teas have different properties, which may relax the digestive tract and relieve bloating and gas,” fullenweider says. according to mount sinai, peppermint can help with bloating because it relaxes the muscles that play a role in passing painful digestion gas. but don’t drink peppermint tea if you struggle with gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd) or hiatal hernia, because it might backfire and result in stomach acids retreating up the esophagus. instead, consider ginger tea, as previous research has shown it may help accelerate gastric emptying. fennel is another good option and has been shown to help with a range of stomach issues, according to a review in biomed research international., related: green tea vs. matcha: how do they compare?, once the dessert is cleared, find some space to give your body a nice stretch. “gentle yoga poses like child’s pose or cat/cow can help relieve abdominal discomfort associated with bloating,” doyle says. hold each pose for five deep breaths (breathing in through the nose and out through the mouth), and continue repeating until you feel some relief, she says. “allow your belly to expand fully with each inhale,” doyle says. “this helps to activate your body’s parasympathetic nervous system, or rest and digest mode, which is calming and will allow you to better digest your food.”, swallowing too much air can lead to bloating and gas, fullenweider says. according to the michigan medicine, the extra air gets into your system if you eat or drink too quickly, drink carbonated beverages, or chew gum. if that air ends up trapped in the colon or small bowel, you end up feeling bloated and gassy, according to brigham and women’s hospital. avoid gum around holiday festivities so you don’t add any extra air to your system., related: excess belly fat poses higher health risks for some normal weight women, by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][7 ways to get rid of bloating after a large meal, deflating postmeal bloat is simpler than you think., stay hydrated, take a walk, cut back on alcohol, steer clear of carbonation, pour yourself some tea, ease into a yoga pose, avoid gum, related galleries, 7 ibd-inspired gift ideas for valentine’s day, 7 superfoods that help digestion, 11 icky but interesting facts about poop, 9 foods that help relieve nausea]7 ways to get rid of bloating after a large meal | everyday health[related:, 11 best and worst foods for boosting metabolism, related:, 6 unusual signs of dehydration you should know about, related:, 6 smart tips for staying hydrated throughout the day, related:, green tea vs. matcha: how do they compare?, related: , excess belly fat poses higher health risks for some normal weight women][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]