[learn about fertility clinic tests and treatments that may help you get pregnant., when you’re having trouble getting pregnant, going to a fertility clinic can be an overwhelming experience. besides being stressful in its own right, fertility treatment comes with a whole vocabulary that may sound like a foreign language to you. the terms in this alphabet soup of jargon often refer to a bewildering array of tests, drugs, or treatments that may be recommended for you, depending on the suspected cause (or causes) of your fertility troubles. it’s a lot to take in., the good news is, scientific advances continue to improve fertility treatments, making it possible for increasing numbers of couples to have babies. in fact, a study published in the august 2017 issue of acta obstetricia et gynecologica scandinavica examined the live birth rates among 862 women and men five years after they underwent assisted reproductive technology (art): by the follow-up, 72 percent of the women had a child as a result of art and 28 percent had a spontaneous pregnancy after art. (1), your best route for navigating the art maze will depend on the underlying problem. here’s a step-by-step look at how you might travel through this experience:, if you’re not ovulating regularly, you may be prescribed a fertility drug such as clomid (clomiphene citrate), an oral medication that causes the pituitary gland to release key hormones (such as follicle-stimulating hormone, fsh, and luteinizing hormone, lh) to trigger your ovaries to make eggs; or a gonadotropin medication, which is an injectable treatment that stimulates the ovaries to produce multiple eggs. (2) by regulating your ovulation, you may be able to get pregnant on your own., if your partner’s sperm count is low or his sperm is slow moving, iui (intrauterine insemination) or ivf (in vitro fertilization) may be recommended. with iui, a high concentration of good-quality sperm cells — collected from your partner or a donor —is inserted directly into your uterus around the time of ovulation. before having the insemination procedure, you may take fertility drugs (such as clomiphene) to stimulate ovulation. because the iui procedure is timed to follow the detection of ovulation, there’s an improved chance that the egg and sperm will find each other and pregnancy will occur. the actual insemination procedure is simple and quick and can be done in a doctor’s office or at a fertility clinic — without anesthesia. (it may cause mild cramping but not pain.)  (3,4), in vitro fertilization (ivf) is a more complicated procedure — and one of the more widely known and effective forms of art. it involves using a combination of fertility medicines (to make your eggs mature and ready to be fertilized) and surgical procedures., before ovarian stimulation occurs, the first step is often for a woman to suppress ovarian function by taking birth control pills or injecting a gnrh (gonadotropin-releasing hormone) agonist medication, such as lupron (leuprolide), into her body for one to four weeks to prevent her from releasing hormones that could stimulate natural ovulation. (5), then the woman will start to give herself daily injections of fertility medication to help her ovaries produce several mature, viable eggs. during this stage, she may have regular blood tests to measure her hormone levels and ultrasound scans to monitor her egg production. when blood tests and ultrasound measurements indicate that the eggs are "ready," it’s time for her to get an injection of human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) to trigger ovulation. (2,3,4), once the ovaries have produced enough mature eggs, a doctor will remove the eggs through a minor surgical procedure (called egg retrieval), either in the doctor’s office or at a fertility clinic. (you’ll likely be given a medication to help you relax and feel comfortable during the procedure.) (4) then your eggs are mixed with your partner’s (or donor’s) sperm in a dish in a lab (a step called insemination); these are kept together in a special container so that fertilization can occur and the cells in the fertilized eggs can divide and grow into embryos., with an additional procedure called icsi (short for intracytoplasmic sperm injection), a single sperm is injected into a mature egg to help during ivf. icsi is most commonly used when a couple is dealing with male factor infertility, whether it’s because of low sperm count, poor motility (movement), or poor sperm quality. (6), within about five days of the egg retrieval, the doctor will place one or more embryos into your uterus in a procedure called embryo transfer; this can be done in a doctor’s office or at a fertility clinic. if any of the embryos attach to the lining of your uterus, you will become pregnant. after the embryo transfer, sometimes women have daily shots of progesterone for the first 8 to 10 weeks to support implantation and the embryo’s survival in the uterus. (2,4) approximately two weeks after the embryo transfer is done, the woman will have a blood or urine test to detect the hormone hcg in her body; the presence of hcg indicates that pregnancy has occurred., for many women, more than one cycle of ivf treatment — meaning, one fresh embryo transfer — is necessary before they become pregnant. (5) approximately 27 percent of ivf cycles will result in a live birth, and while many different factors can affect the chances of success, the woman’s age is the biggest one. (5,8) a study published in september 2018 in human reproduction found that at age 30, a woman with two years of primary infertility who starts icsi treatment for male factor infertility has a 40 percent chance of a live birth from the first complete ivf cycle and a 72 percent chance after three complete cycles., if these fertility treatments aren’t successful, there may be other options. if a woman has healthy fallopian tubes, she may be a candidate for gamete intrafallopian transfer (gift), which involves retrieving a woman’s eggs and transferring them with sperm into a fallopian tube so that fertilization can occur inside the woman’s body; the woman is then given medication to build up the lining of her uterus to support implantation of the fertilized egg. (9,10), other possible interventions might include the use of a donor egg (harvested from the ovaries of another, usually younger, woman) or a donor embryo (from a couple who underwent ivf, became pregnant, and doesn’t want or need their unused fertilized eggs). (10) in addition, using a gestational carrier or surrogate (a woman who agrees to have a couple’s fertilized egg implanted in her uterus and subsequently carries it) may be an option. it’s important to remember that the carrier is not biologically related to the child because she does not provide the egg — that’s a common misconception. (11), by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., sources, , a renowned fertility specialist, recognized as a castle connolly top doctor, discusses the signs of infertility, how it’s diagnosed, and what the options..., a specialist talks about the latest science in diagnosing and treating sperm dna fragmentation., it is not a canary in a coal mine, but it's close. researchers measured toxins in dog testes to determine if chemicals in homes put human reproductive..., a less invasive procedure could preserve fertility, potentially save lives, says new research., research shows that miscarriage and ectopic pregnancy can lead to lingering post-traumatic stress symptoms, anxiety, and depression&nbsp;— sometimes in..., a new study finds that when celebrities go public with their miscarriages, more women seek information and comfort from social media.&nbsp;, a new study finds that direct-to-consumer hormone-based fertility tests are empowering and mystifying at the same time.&nbsp;, how to offer support to a friend or family member living with fertility issues or pregnancy loss.&nbsp;&nbsp;, a look at the impact that the high-fat, low-carb ketogenic diet could have on a couple’s ability to get pregnant., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][essential facts about in vitro fertilization and other fertility treatments, assisted reproductive technology is advancing and improving, your fertility clinic guidepost, if there are ovulating or ovulation problems, if there are sperm problems, in vitro fertilization (ivf) is the most common fertility treatment, first steps for ivf treatments, getting fertility shots, tests that monitor hormone levels and egg production, egg retrieval, insemination, and other ivf steps, infertility procedures for him (male factor procedures), embryo transfers and pregnancy testing, prepare to repeat: multiple ivf treatment cycles may be needed, gamete intrafallopian transfer (gift) and other possible next steps, donor eggs, donor embryo, and more ivf variables, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in fertility, ask a castle connolly top doctor: what are the signs that someone may be infertile?, ask a castle connolly top doctor: know your options in fertility treatment, what dog testes tell us about human fertility, is hysterectomy overused to stop postpartum bleeding?, early pregnancy loss may trigger post-traumatic stress symptoms, celebrity miscarriage revelations spur personal tweets about fertility problems, the latest otc fertility tests spawn confusion, what to say (and not to say) to someone living with infertility, essential fertility facts for women and men: infertility factors, in vitro fertilization, and the truth about getting pregnant, can the keto diet help boost fertility?, menstrual cycle length during menopausal transition may influence later heart disease, post-menopausal women should not take hormone therapy to prevent chronic conditions, is this the end of roe v. wade? what would a scotus decision mean for reproductive health?]in vitro fertilization (ivf) and other infertility treatments you may need to get pregnant | everyday health[assisted reproductive technology is advancing and improving, your fertility clinic guidepost, if there are ovulating or ovulation problems, if there are sperm problems, in vitro fertilization (ivf) is, he most common fertility treatment, first steps for ivf treatments, , getting fertility shots, tests that monitor hormone levels and egg production, egg retrieval, insemination, and other ivf steps, infertility procedures for him (male factor procedures), embryo transfers and pregnancy testing, prepare to repeat: multiple ivf treatment cycles may be needed, gamete intrafallopian transfer (gift) and other possible next steps, donor eggs, donor embryo, and more ivf variables, sources][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, volgsten h, schmidt l. acta obstetricia et gynecologica scandinavica. august 2017., female infertility. mayo clinic., back to basics: the difference between iui and ivf. usc fertility., what is iu1? planned  parenthood., patient education: in vitro fertilization (ivf) (beyond the basics). up to date. january 2018., what is intracytoplasmic sperm injection (icsi)? american society for reproductive medicine., ivf by the numbers. penn medicine., leijdekkers ja, eijkemanset mjc, et al. human reproduction. september 2018., gift (gamete intra-fallopian transfer). the infertility center of st. louis., infertility faqs. centers for disease control and prevention., gestational carrier or surrogacy. american society for reproductive medicine., treating infertility. american college of obstetricians and gynecologists., infertility. ucla obstetrics and gynecology., infertility (sterility). medline plus medical encyclopedia., defining infertility. the american society for reproductive medicine., about infertility and fertility. national institutes of child health and human development., infertility. office of women’s health., science is getting us closer to the end of infertility. wired. march 27, 2018., what is infertility? resolve, the national infertility association., in vitro fertilization (ivf).  medline plus medical encyclopedia., in vitro fertilization (ivf).  nyu langone health., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]