[the history of hormone therapy for women began with two men., one discovered estrogen, the predominant female sex hormone. the other convinced women that if you were past menopause and didn’t replace this hormone, you weren’t truly female., eventually, millions of american women would go on hormone therapy (ht), either to deal with menopausal symptoms or because they thought they were protecting their health. only years later did researchers try to get a handle on whether it actually works, and what the risks are., related: birth control and contraception options: an a-to-z guide, confusion still reigns today, although what is clear is that ht is not the risk-free panacea some had originally believed., before you can have hormone therapy, you have to have hormones. credit for discovering the various forms of estrogen goes to scientist edward adelbert doisy., in the early 20th century, doisy and his colleagues developed analytical techniques for measuring various substances in the blood and urine. (1) when doisy changed jobs in 1923 to head up the new biochemistry department at the st. louis university medical school, he began finding substances to measure. through this process of analyzing the urine and follicular fluids of pigs, doisy eventually isolated the female sex hormone estrogen. (1), there are three types of estrogens that dominate in different phases of a woman’s life. for women between their first menstruation and menopause, estradiol is the most common. estriol dominates during pregnancy. after menopause, the primary estrogen a woman makes is estrone. (2), once estrogen was discovered, it was only a matter of time before scientists figured out how to turn it into a drug., the first commercial preparation of estrogen was called emmenin. it was an alcohol-soluble substance derived from extracts of human placentas. a paper published in 1935 in the canadian medical association journal described this oral solution’s value for treating painful menstrual cramps, which goes by the medical name dysmenorrhea. (3), related: 10 ways to relieve period cramps, eventually, scientists found they could manufacture estrogen rather than taking it from the placenta, by collecting substances from the urine of pregnant mares. when commercial production got going, the drug was named premarin, after "pregnant mares urine." premarin was dominated by estrone, but it contained other estrogen types as well. (4), in 1942, premarin was approved by the food and drug administration (fda) for the treatment of menopausal hot flashes. (5), interestingly, this happened nearly two decades before the first hormonal birth control pill was approved, in 1960., related: birth control in america: a brief history of contraception, according to the nonprofit sexual-health organization, our bodies ourselves, premarin was very effective for this condition, giving women relief from the uncomfortable hot flashes and night sweats many women in menopause suffered. (5), but as early as the 1950s, some women’s health advocates began raising concerns that taking hormones might harm a woman’s health. unfortunately, they were not taken seriously at the time. (5), without estrogen, can you still be feminine? it may sound like a crazy question today, but a book published in 1966, feminine forever, had women asking themselves if they could. author robert a. wilson wrote that taking estrogen would allow a woman to remain “feminine forever,” but if she didn’t do so, she would not. (5), wilson claimed that menopause was a preventable event, because women could simply add back the estrogen their body was no longer making by taking hormone pills. with this therapy, a woman’s “breasts and genital organs will not shrivel. she will be much more pleasant to live with and will not become dull and unattractive,” the book claimed., feminine forever became a bestseller, causing women who read it to flock to their gynecologists in droves. although premarin had not been approved for general treatment of menopause in women who did not have hot flashes, doctors began prescribing it “off label” to any midlife woman, as they are allowed to do. (5), because some research in the 1970s showed that taking estrogen does increase a woman’s risk for endometrial cancer (cancer of the lining of the uterus), women who still had their uterus were given a combined hormone treatment of both estrogen and synthetic progesterone (called progestin), which would protect her from this problem. women who had had a hysterectomy were given estrogen alone. (5), these treatments were initially referred to as hormone replacement therapy (hrt), or sometimes estrogen replacement therapy (ert), or menopausal hormone therapy, but this was later changed to hormone therapy (ht)., related: cancer risks, signs, symptoms, tests, treatments, and more, even as women turned ht into a blockbuster drug, some women’s health advocates remained concerned that menopausal women were unknowingly taking part in a vast experiment, since no large-scale research had proved that these drugs were safe and effective., advocate barbara seaman finally got people talking about the risks when her 1977 book, women and the crisis in sex hormones, vaulted to the bestseller list. seaman warned of small studies linking ht to breast cancer, strokes, and blood clots. (5), but if the book caused some women to question ht, it was short lived. observational studies in the 1980s and 1990s, began touting another benefit of the drugs: protecting women from the dangers of deadly heart disease. one such study was the famous nurses’ health study, which followed nearly 60,000 women through menopause. a report published in 1996 in the new england journal of medicine concluded, “we observed a marked decrease in the risk of major coronary heart disease among women who took estrogen with progestin.” (6), related: your definitive guide to heart disease, with so much money to be made from ht, drug companies promoted it extensively to women and gynecologists during the last decades of the twentieth century, especially touting its protection for the heart., their marketing efforts worked. by 1992, premarin was the no. 1 prescribed drug in the united states. by 1997, its sales exceeded $1 billion. (4), as our bodies, ourselves observes, doctors were prescribing ht to menopausal women “to prevent and treat an increasingly broad range of ailments and experiences associated with aging, from wrinkles and general aches and pains to alzheimer’s disease, depression, and heart attack.” (5), women, too, sang the pills’ praises. gloria bachman, md, professor of obstetrics and gynecology at rutgers’ robert wood johnson medical school, wrote in the international journal of fertility and menopausal studies in 1995 that ht improves the look of the skin, breast, and muscles, among other things, and it therefore it plays an important role in boosting a woman’s self-image and self-esteem. (7), even as they prescribed it though, doctors were eager for better clinical trials. they wanted large studies randomizing women to take a pill which they wouldn’t know was ht or a placebo., they got their first wish with the heart and estrogen/progestin replacement study (hers), a study of some 3,000 older women with cardiovascular disease who were given either ht or a placebo. (5), this randomized controlled trial challenged the theory that ht was beneficial for heart disease. the women were followed for an average of four years. results of the hers research appeared in an article published in 1998 in the journal of the american medical association (jama). (8), if hormone advocates had hoped this research would prove the drug was beneficial, they were mistaken., hers found there was no benefit of the top-selling ht formulation for preventing cardiovascular events. women who had taken ht did not have fewer heart attacks than those who didn’t take the pills., worse, the treatment was found to increase the risk for blood clots and gallbladder disease. the researchers concluded in their jama report that they “do not recommend starting this treatment for the purpose of secondary prevention of coronary heart disease.” (although they did say that because blood clots primarily occurred early in the treatment cycle, women who had been on ht for years who didn’t have a problem could safely continue.) (8), related: what is the gallbladder and what does it do?, the hers trial “severely rocked” the boat of hormone therapy, david katz, md, president of the nonprofit true health initiative, said in an article published april 2014 in huffington post. ht had previously been “a placid sea of prevailing conviction, with only small waves of misgivings,” he writes. (9) those waves were now much more intense., still, according to our bodies, ourselves, proponents of ht tried to discount this research. many claimed the findings did not apply to healthy women who didn’t have heart disease before they took the medication. (5), the women’s health initiative (whi) was the first national randomized clinical trial to track hormone therapy in healthy postmenopausal women. (5) separately, the study also examined other issues in this population, including whether vitamin d supplements or low-fat diets are beneficial. (10), this study, which began enrolling women in 1992 and in the years that followed, planned to track women until 2007, comparing the health effects of those taking combined estrogen-progestin ht — or, for women without a uterus, estrogen-only therapy — with women taking a placebo. (10,11), related: 10 things your doctor won’t tell you about hysterectomy, some 160,000 women across the united states were ultimately enrolled in all phases of the study. the women ranged in age from 50 to 79. (12), but in 2002, the whi shocked the medical community by announcing in an article in the journal of the american medical association that, after following the women for a mean of five years, it had pulled the plug on the estrogen-plus-progestin arm earlier than expected. the excess risk of breast cancer facing women taking the drugs made continuing the study unethical, they said. (11), related: breast cancer signs, symptoms, latest treatments, tests and more, the researchers had discovered that, for each 10,000 person-years, women on these pills would experience eight extra cases of invasive breast cancer, seven additional heart disease, eight more strokes, and eight additional pulmonary embolisms. but they also noted that there would be six fewer colorectal cancers and five fewer hip fractures. (11), two years later, the estrogen-only study was also stopped ahead of time, because it also uncovered an increased risk of blood clots. for these women, though, there was no significant increase in breast cancer risk. (5), whi researchers continued following the women even after they stopped their pills. the huge database of the whi has been analyzed extensively over the years and reported in 117 different publications. (12), these more comprehensive analyses have brought more nuance to the initial belief that taking ht is a risky endeavor., for example:, breast cancer taking estrogen alone (which only women who have had a hysterectomy can safely do) actually decreases breast cancer risks. but combined hormone therapy does raise risk substantially, and cancers may be more aggressive because they are diagnosed at a more advanced stage. (12), heart disease estrogen alone does not increase risk of heart disease, and in women in their fifties it actually decreases it. in women taking combined ht, the biggest risk for heart disease happens the first year after starting the drugs, although a small increased risk continues through the entire treatment. (12), hip fracture taking the drugs either in combination or alone decreases hip fracture risk by a third during the treatment years, with some benefits continuing after the pills are stopped. (12), colorectal cancer while on combined ht pills, colorectal cancer risk decreases. (estrogen alone has no effect.) (12), stroke and blood clots stroke risk increases by one-third during treatment for both groups, as does the risk for blood clots in the legs and lungs. (12), other conditions importantly, the hot flashes and night sweats that are the bane of many women in the menopause transition decreases in women in their early fifties taking ht. memory is not affected in this age group, although women over 65 seem to increase their risk of dementia. diabetes rates go down on ht, but gallbladder disease and urinary incontinence become more prevalent. (12), according to the whi researchers, “estrogen-alone in women who have had a hysterectomy, particularly younger women, has a very different and more favorable risk-benefit profile than estrogen-plus-progestin in women with an intact uterus.” (12), one of the criticisms of the whi is that a majority of the study participants were more than a decade beyond the menopause transition, while hormone therapy — at least these days — is mostly taken by younger women. still, as our bodies, ourselves, observes, “one-third of the women in the whi were in their fifties, making this the largest randomized controlled trial ever done of women in this age group.” (5), another charge against the study researchers: that they only tested premarin, the synthetic estrogen made from the pregnant mare urine, and prempro, the combination of premarin and the progestin provera. (these were the commonly used ht when the trial started.) as a result, our bodies, ourselves says, “the whi findings did not answer questions about the safety and effectiveness of other hormone formulations, regimens, and delivery methods.” (5), for example, the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists (acog) notes that forms of therapy not taken by mouth (such as skin patches, sprays, rings, and others) may have less risk of causing deep vein thrombosis than those taken by mouth. (13), questions raised after the 2002 whi results caused some doctors and women to advocate for bioidentical hormones — those compounded in a pharmacy from plant sources. one major voice for bioidenticals at that time was the actress suzanne sommers, whose 2004 book, the sexy years, claimed that “natural” bioidentical hormones were the secret to sommers’ youthfulness. or, as the subhead claims, “fabulous sex, great health, and vitality.” (14), related: healthy sex: the ultimate guide, but as acog makes clear, “there is no scientific evidence that compounded hormones are safer or more effective than standard hormone therapy.” what’s more, because many bioidenticals are compounded in local pharmacies that are not tightly regulated, “they have the same risks as hormone therapies approved by the u.s. food and drug administration, but they also may have additional risks because of the way they are made.” (13), according to the north american menopause society, ht still remains the most effective treatment for the hot flashes and vaginal dryness that come with menopause. still, because of the risks, women wanting relief from these symptoms should work with their doctors to individualize a treatment plan. (15), for women younger than 60 or who went through the menopause transition less than 10 years earlier (and have no contraindications), the benefit-to-risk ratio may make ht worthwhile. the case is less clear for older women or those further from the change. for them, the benefit-risk ratio appears less favorable because of the greater absolute risks of coronary heart disease, stroke, venous thromboembolism, and dementia, the society says, although this doesn’t mean they should never go on ht., related: dementia: causes, symptoms, treatment, and more, as women suspected as early as the 1950s but had to wait decades for proof, hormone therapy is not without its problems. whether the benefits outweighs those risks is something each woman has to decide with her physician., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., the uspstf reviewed current evidence and reaffirmed an earlier recommendation., a draft opinion from the u.s. supreme court strikes down the federal right to abortion guaranteed by the 1973 decision in roe v. wade and would leave ..., women with obesity who go through menopause at 55 or older are more likely to develop heart failure later in life, a new study suggests., women over 40 often seek new ways to lose weight in response to age-related physical changes. is the ketogenic diet the right diet for midlife?, women who have long or irregular menstrual cycles are more likely to develop nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, a new study suggests., key changes in fat distribution and metabolism begin well before the menopause transition, researchers find., lack of estrogen may increase brain aging and lead to cognitive impairment, according to researchers., research finds that female pattern hair loss is common and associated with lower self-esteem., new research has found that women who were taking estrogen were less likely to die of covid-19 than women with natural estrogen levels., top risk factors include overweight or obesity, high blood pressure, and diabetes., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][the wild history of women’s hormone therapy, the lead-up to hormone replacement therapy (hrt) and hormone therapy (ht), estrogen was discovered in st. louis in 1929, synthetic hormones first used for menstrual cramps, manufacturing and mass producing synthetic estrogen, the book that made hormone therapy famous, demand for hormone replacement therapy and hormone replacement increases, another book cast doubts about hormone therapy, a marketing frenzy made ht a bestseller, forever young? anti-aging momentum begins, a call for more hormone therapy scientific research, the heart and estrogen/progestin replacement study (hers) looked at women taking ht, new concerns over ht risks for blood clots, other disease, the women’s health initiative (whi) launches, early findings from the whi couldn’t be ignored, new concerns about ht and breast cancer, heart disease halt whi research, whi delivered a treasure trove of health information, criticisms of the whi research approach surface, what about other hormone formulas and delivery methods?, are bioidentical hormones any better?, hormone therapy and midlife women today, a move away from one-size-fits-all hormone treatments, resources we love, editorial sources and fact-checking, sources, the latest in hormones, post-menopausal women should not take hormone therapy to prevent chronic conditions, is this the end of roe v. wade? what would a scotus decision mean for reproductive health?, obesity increases heart failure risk associated with late menopause, the keto diet and menopause: what you need to know, irregular periods tied to increased risk of liver disease, menopausal weight gain: diet, exercise during perimenopause may be the best strategy to avoid excess weight, onset of menopause before age 45 is linked to higher risk of dementia later in life, more than half of women over age 50 have thinning hair, hormone replacement therapy may reduce the risk of covid-19 death in post-menopausal women, more than half of u.s. women have poor heart health before pregnancy, menopausal symptoms may be linked to cognitive performance, study says, the menopause transition is a time of serious heart disease risk, 5 health risks women face after menopause]what is the history of hormone therapy, or hrt? | everyday health[related: birth control and contraception options: an a-to-z guide, related: 10 ways to relieve period cramps, related: birth control in america: a brief history of contraception, related: cancer risks, signs, symptoms, tests, treatments, and more, related: your definitive guide to heart disease, related: what is the gallbladder and what does it do?, related: 10 things your doctor won’t tell you about hysterectomy, related: breast cancer signs, symptoms, latest treatments, tests and more, breast cancer, heart disease, hip fracture, colorectal cancer, stroke and blood clots, other conditions, related:, healthy sex: the ultimate guide, related: dementia: causes, symptoms, treatment, and more, sources][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, simoni rd, hill rl, vaughan m, et al. the discovery of estrone, estriol, and estradiol and the biochemical study of reproduction. the work of edward adelbert dois.the journal of biological chemistry. july 12, 2002, mandal, a. estrogen types. news-medical.net. nov 28, 2012., watson mc. observations on the treatment of dysmenorrhea with the placental extract “emmenin.” canadian medical association journal. june 1935., woods j. the history of estrogen. obstetrics & gynecology: menopause blog. february 2016., the history of hormone treatment in menopause. our bodies, ourselves. december 4, 2014., grodstein f, stampfer mj, manson je, et al. postmenopausal estrogen and progestin use and the risk of cardiovascular disease. new england journal of medicine. august 1996., bachmann ga. influence of menopause on sexuality. international journal of fertility and menopause studies. 1995., hulley s, grady d, bush t, et al. randomized trial of estrogen plus progestin for secondary prevention of coronary heart disease in postmenopausal women. journal of the american medical association. august 19, 1998., katz d. hormone replacement follies: a brief history. huffington post. april 13, 2011., the women’s health initiative study group. design of the women's health initiative clinical trial and observational study. the women's health initiative study group. controlled clinical trials. february 1998., writing group for the women’s health initiative investigators. risks and benefits of estrogen plus progestin in healthy postmenopausal women: principal results from the women's health initiative randomized controlled trial. journal of the american medical association. july 2002., menopausal hormone therapy and health outcomes during the intervention and extended poststopping phases of the women’s health initiative randomized trials. women’s health initiative., faq: the menopause years. american college of obstetricians and gynecologists. 2015., sommers s. the sexy years: discover the hormone connection: the secret to fabulous sex, great health, and vitality, for women and men. march 8, 2004., the 2017 hormone therapy position statement of the north american menopause society. menopause: the journal of the north american menopause society. 2017., the facts of hormone therapy. international menopause society. 2004., gorney c. the estrogen dilemma. the new york times. april 14, 2010., hormone therapy: benefits & risks. the north american menopause society., hormone therapy: is it right for you? mayo clinic. may 2018., hormone replacement therapy, medlineplus., hrt: the history. women’s health concern. november. 2017., the last word on hormone therapy from the women's health initiative. national public radio. october 4, 2013., mok c. the long and misunderstood history of hormone replacement therapy. forbes. april 16, 2017., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]