[a pelvic exam is usually the first step, followed by blood tests, imaging tests, and surgery., getting an ovarian cancer diagnosis isn’t always a simple process. there’s not yet a reliable screening test for ovarian cancer like there is for breast cancer (mammogram) or cervical cancer (pap test), according to the american cancer society. (1) that means women have to rely on noticing symptoms and seeking medical attention as quickly as possible., the problem is the signs and symptoms of ovarian cancer aren’t always easy to recognize, and they can mimic those of other conditions., only about 20 percent of ovarian cancers are found at an early stage, when they’re most treatable., early and accurate ovarian cancer diagnosis is important, because it may improve the odds of successful treatment., a screening test is given to detect a disease before a person experiences any symptoms. right now, there aren’t screening tests available for ovarian cancer, according to the centers for disease control and prevention. (2), an example of a screening test is a pap test (or pap smear), which identifies cervical cancer. a pap smear, however, doesn’t detect ovarian cancer., a diagnostic test is used to diagnose a condition when a person has symptoms of cancer. the purpose of a diagnostic test is to find out what’s causing the symptoms. sometimes, a diagnostic test is also used if you have a strong family history of cancer or your physician suspects you have cancer for other reasons.  , there are several diagnostic tests for ovarian cancer, including a pelvic exam, blood tests, and imaging tests., usually, the first exam is the abdominal-pelvic examination, notes cancer.net. (3) during a pelvic exam, a doctor feels a woman’s ovaries and uterus to check the size, shape, and consistency. (1), sometimes, healthcare providers can find ovarian cancer at an early stage by performing a pelvic exam. but most early ovarian tumors are hard to feel., a pelvic exam can also help find other cancers or conditions., a physician investigating whether or not you have ovarian cancer may order a blood test to look for elevated levels of a protein called ca-125., but this test is not definitive. while women with ovarian cancer may have abnormally high ca-125 levels, they don't always., what’s more, an increase in the amount of ca-125 in the blood is more likely to be caused by more common health conditions, such as pelvic inflammatory disease or endometriosis., some rare forms of ovarian cancer — germ cell and stromal — may cause increases in other substances in the blood., doctors use imaging tests to see if there is a mass inside the pelvis that may be cancer and to look for tumors elsewhere in the body that show the cancer has spread. some common imaging tests include: (3), a pelvic ultrasound involves inserting a small probe into the vagina that releases sound waves. the ultrasound machine translates the echoes into images on a screen., ultrasound can detect the presence of a pelvic mass and reveal how big it is and whether it is solid (a tumor) or fluid-filled (a cyst)., researchers are studying whether ultrasound screening tests can help detect ovarian cancer in women who don’t have any symptoms., these scans use x-rays to create a cross-sectional, 3-d image of the body that reveals any abnormalities or tumors. a ct scan can be used to determine how large a tumor is and how much the cancer has spread. however, it is difficult for a ct scan to detect tumors or abnormalities smaller than about 5 millimeters (1/5 inch)., pet scans look for cancer cells throughout the body and can help doctors determine whether any abnormalities detected by other imaging tests are cancerous or not., doctors inject a form of radioactive sugar into the bloodstream and use the pet scan to look for clusters of radioactivity in the body., these clusters indicate the presence of cancer cells, which take up more sugar than normal cells in order to get the energy they need to drive their rapid growth., surgery to remove a tumor is often done to help diagnose ovarian cancer, notes the memorial sloan kettering cancer center.  (4), this procedure might involve using techniques, such as minimally invasive laparoscopy or robotic approaches., removing the abnormal tissue lets doctors examine it, so they can determine if it’s cancerous. sometimes, your doctor can’t be sure you have cancer until surgery is performed., a biopsy — looking at a tissue sample under a microscope to see if there are any cancer cells — is the only way to make a definitive ovarian cancer diagnosis, according to the american cancer society. (5), doctors will typically remove tissue for an ovarian cancer biopsy during a surgery that also aims to remove the tumor., for patients suspected of having advanced cancer, physicians may be concerned that a surgical biopsy might spread cancer. in these cases, they may choose to get a tissue sample through a laparoscopy procedure or by inserting a needle through the skin of the abdomen directly into the tumor., when a patient has fluid buildup in their abdomen, doctors may use a syringe to get a sample of fluid for biopsy., after you get an ovarian cancer diagnosis, your doctor will attempt to stage your disease. staging allows providers to assess the extent of the cancer and give you an accurate prognosis, notes the american cancer society. (6), once your stage is determined, you and your physician will come up with an appropriate treatment plan. this may include surgery and chemo, per the american cancer society. (7), though a diagnosis of ovarian cancer can be scary, it’s a critical step to understanding your disease and establishing a successful treatment plan., additional reporting by julie marks., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., pain from ovarian cancer can be subtle or extensive, but there are pain management strategies that can help., it’s important to know your ovarian cancer risk when family planning and how a prior diagnosis can affect fertility., effective ovarian cancer treatment requires a cooperative approach. learn about the key healthcare providers who should be on your team., whether you’re in the middle of treatment for ovarian cancer or trying to get your strength back after you’ve completed it, a yoga routine may be just..., new treatments for advanced ovarian cancer are helping some women defy the odds. here’s how one 78-year-old and her doctors have kept hope alive for a..., treated at its earliest stage, ovarian cancer has a high survival rate. but women and their doctors often fail to recognize the symptoms, leading to missed..., does using talcum powder raise your risk of ovarian cancer? does having a hysterectomy mean you can’t get the disease? here, an faq., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][ovarian cancer: how is ovarian cancer diagnosed?, most recent in ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer pain: what it feels like, what causes it, and how women manage it, ovarian cancer and pregnancy: what you need to know, nutrition for ovarian cancer patients: what are the healthiest foods and supplements for your diet?, meet your ovarian cancer healthcare team, difference between screening and diagnostic tests, editor’s picks in ovarian cancer, a pelvic exam is often the first test, blood tests: is there an ovarian cancer blood test?, imaging tests can help doctors make a diagnosis, ultrasound, computerized tomography (ct) scans, positron emission tomography (pet) scans, surgeries: a helpful tool for diagnosing ovarian cancer, a biopsy is the only definitive test for diagnosing ovarian cancer, what happens after a diagnosis is made?, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in ovarian cancer, finding a cancer diagnosis and coping with infertility, ovarian cancer pain: what it feels like, what causes it, and how women manage it, ovarian cancer and pregnancy: what you need to know, meet your ovarian cancer healthcare team, yoga for ovarian cancer: poses that benefit your health during and after treatment, ovarian cancer awareness month: september 2020, ovarian cancer survivor stories, your everyday guide to living well with ovarian cancer, with ovarian cancer, early detection is key. why is it so hard?, 6 common questions about ovarian cancer, answered, what is uterine cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, what is cervical cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, what is colon and rectal cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention]how is ovarian cancer diagnosed? | everyday health[.,  , ultrasound, computerized tomography (ct) scans, positron emission tomography (pet) scans][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, ultrasound, computerized tomography (ct) scans, positron emission tomography (pet) scans, can ovarian cancer be found early? american cancer society. april 11, 2018., what should i know about screening? centers for disease control and prevention. august 15, 2019., ovarian, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cancer: diagnosis. cancer.net. may 2020., ovarian cancer diagnosis. memorial sloan kettering cancer center., tests for ovarian cancer. american cancer society. april 3, 2020., cancer staging. american cancer society. march 25, 2015., treatment of invasive epithelial ovarian cancers, by stage. american cancer society. may 7, 2020., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]