[brca1 and brca2 are genes that help prevent tumors from growing., if you inherit a change, or mutation, in these genes, they stop doing their jobs, and cancer can develop., in the united states, about 1 in every 400 people has a brca gene mutation. both women and men can be affected. (1), most individuals acquire just one of these mutated genes, but some people can have both a brca1 and a brca2 alteration. (2), the brca genes are most often associated with breast cancer. in fact, brca1 is short for “breast cancer gene one,” and brca2 for “breast cancer gene two.”, research shows that about 72 percent of women who inherit a defective brca1 gene and about 69 percent who have a brca2 mutation will develop breast cancer by age 80. to put that in perspective, women in the general population have about a 12 percent chance of developing breast cancer at some point in their lives. (3), the risk of developing ovarian cancer is also high for women with a brca1 or brca2 gene alteration. about 44 percent of women with a brca1 mutation and about 17 percent of those with a brca2 mutation will develop ovarian cancer by age 80. only about 1.3 percent of women in the general population are likely to have ovarian cancer during their lives. (3), in addition to breast and ovarian cancer, having a brca gene mutation can increase a woman’s risk of developing:, men with a brca mutation may be more likely to have:, brca1 and brca2 normally produce a protein that acts as a tumor suppressor. this means it helps prevent cells from growing and dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled manner., these genes also interact with other proteins in the body and are involved in helping cells repair damaged dna. (5,6), yes, tests are available to identify brca mutations., genetic testing involves providing a sample of blood or saliva, so doctors can analyze it in a lab., this test is only recommended for people at high risk, such as those who have or have had:, additionally, people of ashkenazi jewish decent are more likely to have a mutation and may want to consider genetic testing. (7), it’s a good idea to meet with a genetic counselor. this professional can help assess your family history, explain the pros and cons of testing, and help you interpret your results., if one of your family members has a brca defect, there’s a chance you could, too., men and women with a brca mutation have a fifty-fifty chance of passing it on to each of their children., identifying the mutation can help you better understand your cancer risk and that of your children and other descendants. (7), after many years of study, a team of researchers officially discovered the brca1 gene in 1994. the brca2 gene was then identified in 1995. (8), finding out you have a brca mutation may be scary, but this information can also help you and your doctor plan prevention strategies., if your result is positive, you’ll undergo earlier and more frequent diagnostic tests, such as mammograms, ultrasounds, pelvic exams, and breast exams. doctors will typically also screen for pancreatic cancer and screen more aggressively for prostate cancer in men who carry a brca mutation., you may also choose to take a cancer-fighting drug, like soltamox (tamoxifen), to reduce your risk of developing breast cancer. or your doctor might recommend that you take birth control pills for a certain amount of time to lower your chances of ovarian cancer., some women choose to have preventive surgery, such as prophylactic breast removal (mastectomy) or ovary removal. a preventive mastectomy can reduce breast cancer risk in women with a brca mutation by as much as 90 percent. (7), your doctor can explain your options in detail., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., references, , pacritinib fills a treatment gap for patients with myelofibrosis and a low platelet count, losing weight might reduce your risk for colon cancer, a new drug may help hard-to-treat ovarian cancer, and more cancer research news from february 2022..., the program aims to slash the cancer death rate by half over the next 25 years., improving arm function after breast cancer surgery, earlier hpv vaccination may offer more protection from cervical cancer, and more cancer news from ..., public figures face a dilemma when diagnosed with cancer: go public or keep it private? how do they make the call?, low white blood counts are among the life-threatening obstacles patients face when receiving chemotherapy. a new drug could change that., a possible vaccine for triple-negative breast cancer, a breast cancer prediction tool for black american women, and more cancer news from october 2021..., genetic counselors and advocates spread awareness, share personal stories, and give their best tips in honor of hereditary cancer awareness week.&nbsp..., receiving a covid-19 vaccination rarely interrupts cancer care, more evidence ties antibiotics to colorectal cancer, and more cancer news from september..., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][cancer risk genes: everything you need to know about brca1 and brca2, if you carry a brca1 or brca2 mutation, what cancers are you at risk for?, how do brca1 and brca2 increase your risk for cancer?, can you be tested for brca1 and brca2?, why is it important to know if you are at risk for brca1 and brca2?, history of the brca1 and brca2 genes: when were they discovered?, what do you do if you test positive for brca1 or brca2?, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in cancer, condition kitchen: 3 easy, go-to recipes for people living with cancer, fda approves pacritinib for treatment of myelofibrosis, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for february 2022, biden relaunches cancer moonshot program with pledge to ‘end cancer as we know it’, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for november 2021, celebrities with cancer: why do some go public — and others don’t?, fda rejects promising new drug that prevents low white blood cell counts in patients receiving chemotherapy, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for october 2021, everyday health’s hereditary cancer risk twitter chat: here’s what you missed, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for september 2021, cancer news digest: latest developments in cancer research and treatment for june, what is ovarian cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, what is breast cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention]everything you need to know about the brca1 and brca2 cancer risk genes | everyday health[references][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, cervical cancer, uterine cancer, pancreatic cancer, colon cancer, stomach cancer, gallbladder or bile duct cancer, melanoma, breast cancer, testicular cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer (4), breast cancer before age 50, breast cancer in both breasts, breast and ovarian cancer, one or more family members with breast cancer, a male relative with breast cancer, a family member with a brca mutation, brca1 and brca2. susan g. komen. 2018., what to do if your genetic test results are positive. breastcancer.org. 2019., brca mutations: cancer risk and genetic testing. national cancer institute. 2018., brca1 and brca2 gene testing. medlineplus. 2017., brca1 gene. nih: genetics home reference. 2019., brca2 gene. nih: genetics home reference. 2019., brca test. medlineplus., questions about the brca1 and brca2 gene study and breast cancer. national human genome research institute. 1997., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]