[the stage of cancer indicates how advanced it is and what treatments will work best., after a diagnosis is made, your doctor will stage the cancer., the stage defines the location of the cancer, how much it has spread, how big it is, and how aggressive it is., knowing the stage of cancer is important because it typically determines your treatment options., a cancer is referred to by the stage it’s given when you’re first diagnosed, even if it worsens to a different stage., doctors use different tests to determine a cancer’s stage. these might include:, these methods can show your physician where the cancer is located and how much it’s spread throughout your body., related: is it lung cancer? what tests will i get?, metastatic cancer means the cancer has spread from where it started to another part of your body. whether or not a cancer has metastasized has a significant impact on how your doctor will stage the disease., metastatic cancer is typically harder to treat. but some cancers, like testicular cancer, can still be very curable even if they’ve spread to other areas of your body., related: linnea duff: living with late-stage lung cancer, doctors have two ways to stage cancer:, clinical staging this type of staging is done based on the results of diagnostic exams, like a biopsy or imaging test., pathological staging this form takes diagnostic tests into account but also determines the stage based on how the cancer, and biopsies performed on surrounding tissue during surgery, appear after they are removed during surgery., the pathological stage of a cancer might be different than the clinical stage. for example, your doctor may not detect a tumor on an imaging test but might see it clearly during surgery. in this case, your pathological stage will be more advanced than your clinical stage., not everyone has surgery for cancer, so clinical staging is often used., related: 10 metastatic cancer blogs to read when you feel like no one understands, doctors commonly use the american joint committee on cancer’s (ajcc’s) tnm system to stage a cancer. it’s the most widely used cancer staging approach., this protocol uses the letters t, n, and m to label the stage of cancer. here’s what the letters represent:, tnm staging is commonly used along with numbers to describe your tumor. typically, a cancer stage includes a letter followed by a number., the numeric cancer staging system, which is used along with the letters tnm, includes:, stage 0 this stage describes cancers that haven’t spread to nearby tissues and are located in the same place they started. typically, stage 0 cancers are very curable., stage 1 these cancers haven’t grown deeply into nearby tissues or spread to the lymph nodes or other parts of the body. they’re typically small and often referred to as “early-stage” cancers. generally, stage 1 cancers have a good outlook., stage 2 and 3 these cancers have grown more deeply into nearby tissues. they may have also metastasized to lymph nodes but not other parts of the body., stage 4 this is the most advanced stage, which describes cancer that’s spread to other parts of the body. a stage 4 cancer is often called metastatic cancer., related: is stage 4 lung cancer too late for treatment?, sometimes stages are also subdivided into the categories a and b. for instance, your doctor might say you have a stage 3a or stage 3b cancer., these letters can offer more information about the cancer. stage a is typically used to describe a cancer that’s less aggressive, while stage b is used to classify a more advanced cancer within a certain category. (for example, stage 2a is less aggressive than stage 2b, but stage 3a is more aggressive than stage 2b.), your doctor might consider other factors when staging the cancer, such as:, grade the grade of the cancer describes how abnormal cancer cells look under a microscope. tumors with cells that look more like healthy cells are called “low-grade.” those with less healthy-looking cells might be termed “poorly differentiated,” “dysplastic,” “undifferentiated,” or “high-grade.” grade is assigned differently depending on what type of cancer you have., tumor markers these are substances found at high levels in the blood, urine, or tissue of people with cancer. in some cases, tumor markers might be more accurate at predicting how well a treatment will work for a specific cancer than staging it is. for instance, men with prostate cancer might have a high level of prostate-specific antigen (psa) in their blood, which could offer better insight about the cancer than traditional staging techniques., genetics specific genes in cancer cells might help doctors determine if certain treatments will work. researchers are working to learn more about how a person’s genes can impact their response to cancer therapy., cell type the type of cell that makes up a cancer may affect a person’s treatment and outlook. for instance, esophageal cancers can be squamous cell cancers or adenocarcinomas. each of these types is staged differently, and oftentimes treated differently., because some cancers grow and spread differently, they aren’t all staged with the tnm system. for instance, other staging systems are often used for brain cancer, hodgkin lymphoma, childhood cancers, and lymphomas., also, some doctors prefer to use older staging systems because they’re more familiar with them., staging systems are often complex. you might not understand just what all the letters and numbers mean at first. talk to your doctor if you have any questions. a qualified healthcare professional should be able to effectively explain your cancer stage and how it impacts your prognosis., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., pacritinib fills a treatment gap for patients with myelofibrosis and a low platelet count, losing weight might reduce your risk for colon cancer, a new drug may help hard-to-treat ovarian cancer, and more cancer research news from february 2022..., the program aims to slash the cancer death rate by half over the next 25 years., improving arm function after breast cancer surgery, earlier hpv vaccination may offer more protection from cervical cancer, and more cancer news from ..., public figures face a dilemma when diagnosed with cancer: go public or keep it private? how do they make the call?, low white blood counts are among the life-threatening obstacles patients face when receiving chemotherapy. a new drug could change that., a possible vaccine for triple-negative breast cancer, a breast cancer prediction tool for black american women, and more cancer news from october 2021..., genetic counselors and advocates spread awareness, share personal stories, and give their best tips in honor of hereditary cancer awareness week.&nbsp..., receiving a covid-19 vaccination rarely interrupts cancer care, more evidence ties antibiotics to colorectal cancer, and more cancer news from september..., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][after a cancer diagnosis comes the 'staging', how doctors stage cancers, the role of metastasis, two types of staging, the tnm system, stage grouping (numeric staging), stages a and b, other factors that affect staging, other staging systems, understanding cancer staging, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in cancer, condition kitchen: 3 easy, go-to recipes for people living with cancer, fda approves pacritinib for treatment of myelofibrosis, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for february 2022, biden relaunches cancer moonshot program with pledge to ‘end cancer as we know it’, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for november 2021, celebrities with cancer: why do some go public — and others don’t?, fda rejects promising new drug that prevents low white blood cell counts in patients receiving chemotherapy, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for october 2021, everyday health’s hereditary cancer risk twitter chat: here’s what you missed, cancer news digest: the latest developments in cancer research and treatment for september 2021, 5 questions to ask your doctor about genomic testing for nsclc, lung cancer: stages of lung cancer, 10 metastatic breast cancer blogs to read when you feel like no one understands]what does the 'stage' of your cancer signify? | everyday health[related: is it lung cancer? what tests will i get?, related: linnea duff: living with late-stage lung cancer, clinical staging, pathological staging , related: 10 metastatic cancer blogs to read when you feel like no one understands, stage 0, stage 1, stage 2 and 3, stage 4, related: is stage 4 lung cancer too late for treatment?, other factors that affect staging, grade, tumor markers, genetics, cell type][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, physical exams, lab work, such as blood or urine tests, biopsies, imaging tests, such as a magnetic resonance imaging (mri), computerized tomography (ct), or positron-emission tomography (pet) scan, surgery, other tests, t stands for tumor. the letter describes how large the tumor is and where it’s located in your body., n is for node. it explains if the tumor has spread to lymph nodes, and if so, how many., m is for metastasis. it’s used to tell doctors if cancer has spread to other parts of your body, and if so, how much., cancer staging. national cancer institute. march 9, 2015., cancer staging. american cancer society., stages of cancer. american society of clinical oncology. september, 2015., cancer — diagnosis and treatment. mayo clinic. may 23, 2015., what is cancer staging? american joint commission on cancer., cancer staging guide. national comprehensive cancer network., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]