[the type of ovarian cancer, the extent of the disease, and factors like the patient’s age and overall health determine treatment decisions., in treating ovarian cancer, surgery is typically the first plan of attack, both to help doctors stage the cancer — that is, to assess how advanced it is — and to remove as much of the tumor as possible., unless ovarian cancer is caught early (and fewer than 2 in 10 cases are), surgery is generally followed by chemotherapy. the goal of chemotherapy, which is usually administered orally or intravenously (iv), is to kill any cancer cells remaining in the body after surgery., doctors also sometimes use chemotherapy before surgery to shrink very large tumors so that they are easier to remove., doctors sometimes treat advanced ovarian cancer by using next-generation medicines called targeted drugs. these fight the disease by homing in on traits that distinguish malignant ovarian cells from normal, healthy ones., while radiation plays a role in the treatment of many cancers, it is not typically used for ovarian cancer. doctors might use radiation to kill cancer cells that have spread beyond the ovaries to areas such as the brain or spinal cord., hormone therapy, a treatment for some breast cancers, is not generally part of the strategy for fighting ovarian cancer. the exception is a rare type of ovarian cancer called ovarian stromal tumors. (1), related: large study finds no link between use of talcum powder in genital area and ovarian cancer, no matter how early doctors diagnose ovarian cancer, surgery is usually part of the treatment plan., surgery can be extensive if the cancer is advanced and doctors feel the patient is healthy enough in general to withstand the operation., this is true for epithelial ovarian cancer, the most common type of ovarian cancer, as well as for uncommon forms called ovarian germ cell tumors and stromal tumors., one major goal of surgery is staging the cancer to see if it has spread beyond the ovaries. staging the cancer is essential for helping doctors decide on the best treatment and make a prognosis (a prediction of the course of the disease)., depending on how advanced the cancer is, the surgeon may remove both ovaries and fallopian tubes (a procedure called a bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy) as well as the uterus (an operation called a hysterectomy)., some patients who want to preserve their fertility may have the choice of having an initial surgery that removes only the ovary with the cancer and its adjacent fallopian tube., if a patient has more advanced cancer, surgery will also probably involve removing the omentum, a layer of fatty tissue within the abdomen, as well as lymph nodes in the pelvis and abdomen., any fluid present in the pelvis or abdominal cavity also has the potential to contain cancer cells, so the surgeon will remove a sample for testing., the doctor might also “wash” the abdomen with salt water and send that liquid to the lab for analysis., in addition to staging, surgery to remove as much of an epithelial ovarian tumor as possible — a process called debulking — is a key part of treatment., in order to debulk an ovarian tumor, surgeons may also need to remove a piece of a nearby organ, such as the colon, small intestine, or bladder., removal of the spleen or gallbladder, as well as parts of the stomach, liver, or pancreas, might also be necessary., research has shown that surgery that leaves behind no visible cancer or reduces tumor size to 1 centimeter or less has the best outcome. (2), related: complications of ovarian cancer: how does it affect your body in the short and long term?, when found very early, ovarian cancer is usually very treatable and sometimes curable. (3 pdf), women with stage 1 cancers that are deemed low-grade (meaning a tumor sample contains mainly healthy-looking cells) generally don’t receive chemotherapy after surgery., but, because ovarian cancer is often detected at later stages, these patients are in the minority., patients who have more-advanced disease, and those whose disease falls into the most common variety of ovarian cancer, epithelial ovarian cancer, usually receive two different chemotherapy drugs in combination., typically one drug is a type called a platinum-based compound, usually platinol (cisplatin) or carboplatin, while the other is a category of drug called a taxane, such as taxol (paclitaxel) or taxotere (docetaxel)., these drugs are generally administered in three to six cycles., other common drugs used to treat ovarian cancer include:, related: cancer risk genes: everything you need to know about cdhi, some women with advanced ovarian cancer may be candidates for intraperitoneal (ip) chemotherapy, in which platinol and taxol are injected into the abdominal cavity through a catheter (thin tube)., patients who might benefit from this treatment are those who have been diagnosed with stage 3 (the cancer has not spread beyond the abdomen) cancer, with tumors that have been “optimally” debulked (meaning they are no larger than 1 centimeter after surgery)., ip chemotherapy directs a concentrated dose of drugs to the tumor site. medication is also absorbed into the bloodstream and can attack cancer cells elsewhere in the body., ip treatment seems to help some patients live longer. but it can also cause more extreme side effects than iv medication, such as abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting., researchers are investigating the effectiveness of giving ip chemotherapy during surgery using heated drugs, known as heated intraperitoneal chemotherapy (hipec), or “hot” chemotherapy., in this procedure, surgeons remove all visible tumors, then pump chemotherapy medication, which has been heated to 103 degrees fahrenheit, through the abdominal cavity. surgeons physically rock the patient on the operating table to make sure the drug reaches all areas of the abdomen. (4), some research, including one study published in the january 2018 issue of the new england journal of medicine, has shown that hipec can extend some patients' lives. (5,6) women who received hipec plus surgery had an overall survival rate of about one year longer than those who only underwent surgery. (7), researchers have developed a relatively new type of treatment called targeted therapy that attacks cancer by focusing on traits that the cancer cells need to survive., instead of killing cancer cells outright, as standard chemotherapy does, targeted drugs interfere with the way these cells function, which can ultimately cause them to die., by zeroing in on cancer cells, targeted drugs avoid harming healthy cells., patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer may be treated with chemotherapy as well as with the targeted drug avastin (bevacizumab). avastin attaches to a protein that allows a cancer to develop the new blood vessels it needs to grow., other targeted drugs, called parp inhibitors (parp is an enzyme in cells that helps repair damaged dna), may be used to treat the small percentage of ovarian cancers linked to mutations in the brca gene., these medications may also be used as maintenance therapy (to prevent cancer from recurring after treatment) for patients with or without brca gene mutations., parp inhibitors include lynparza (olaparib), rubraca (rucaparib), and zejula (niraparib). (8), immunotherapy is a newer approach in treating ovarian cancer. it involves stimulating a person’s immune system so it can better identify and attack cancer cells., some studies have suggested that combining immunotherapy medication with chemotherapy could offer survival benefits for women with ovarian cancer. (9), right now, researchers are still studying the effectiveness of this treatment, but it may hold potential down the road., additional reporting by julie marks., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., pain from ovarian cancer can be subtle or extensive, but there are pain management strategies that can help., it’s important to know your ovarian cancer risk when family planning and how a prior diagnosis can affect fertility., effective ovarian cancer treatment requires a cooperative approach. learn about the key healthcare providers who should be on your team., whether you’re in the middle of treatment for ovarian cancer or trying to get your strength back after you’ve completed it, a yoga routine may be just..., new treatments for advanced ovarian cancer are helping some women defy the odds. here’s how one 78-year-old and her doctors have kept hope alive for a..., a pelvic exam is usually the first step, followed by blood tests, imaging tests, and surgery., treated at its earliest stage, ovarian cancer has a high survival rate. but women and their doctors often fail to recognize the symptoms, leading to missed..., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][treatment for ovarian cancer: surgery options, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, immunotherapy, and more, ovarian cancer surgery: removing as much tumor as possible, chemotherapy is usually part of the plan, intraperitoneal chemotherapy (ip) for advanced ovarian cancer, targeted therapy: next-gen ovarian cancer treatment, immunotherapy: a promising approach?, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in ovarian cancer, finding a cancer diagnosis and coping with infertility, ovarian cancer pain: what it feels like, what causes it, and how women manage it, ovarian cancer and pregnancy: what you need to know, meet your ovarian cancer healthcare team, yoga for ovarian cancer: poses that benefit your health during and after treatment, ovarian cancer awareness month: september 2020, ovarian cancer survivor stories, ovarian cancer: how is ovarian cancer diagnosed?, your everyday guide to living well with ovarian cancer, with ovarian cancer, early detection is key. why is it so hard?, ovarian cancer: how is ovarian cancer diagnosed?, breast cancer: how is invasive ductal carcinoma (idc) treated?, how is cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma treated?]ovarian cancer treatment | everyday health[the type of ovarian cancer, the extent of the disease, and factors like the patient’s age and overall health determine treatment decisions., related:, large study finds no link between use of talcum powder in genital area and ovarian cancer, related:, complications of ovarian cancer: how does it affect your body in the short and long term?, related:, cancer risk genes: everything you need to know about cdhi, intraperitoneal chemotherapy (ip) for advanced ovarian cancer, immunotherapy: a promising approach?][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, abraxane (albumin-bound paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel), hexalen (altretamine), xeloda (capecitabine), cytoxan (cyclophosphamide), etoposide or vp-16, gemzar (gemcitabine), ifex (ifosfamide), camptosar (irinotecan or cpt-11), doxil (liposomal doxorubicin), melphalan, alimta (pemetrexed), topotecan, navelbine (vinorelbine), hormone therapy for ovarian cancer. american cancer society. april 11, 2018., surgery for ovarian cancer. american cancer society. april 11, 2018., reynolds r. what every woman should know about gynecological surgery [pdf]. university of michigan comprehensive cancer center., hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy. university of texas md anderson cancer center., van driel wj, koole sn, sikorska k, et al. hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy in ovarian cancer. new england journal of medicine. january 18, 2018., chemotherapy for ovarian cancer. american cancer society. april 11, 2018., debernardo r. hypothermal introperitoneal therapy (hipec) in newly diagnosed advanced ovarian cancer. cleveland clinic. march 16, 2018., targeted therapy for ovarian cancer. american cancer society. april 11, 2018., zamrin d. immunotherapy and efficacy of chemo in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. memorial sloan kettering cancer center. september 19, 2019., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]