[the surgical method used to remove the uterus determines the recovery to expect., the surgical method used to remove the uterus determines the recovery to expect., a hysterectomy is a surgical operation to remove the uterus, the organ located in the female pelvis., attached to the uterus on each side is a single fallopian tube and one ovary., during pregnancy, a fertilized egg implants itself in the lining of the uterus where the developing fetus is nourished prior to birth., the uterus, or womb, is crucial for reproduction. after undergoing hysterectomy, a woman will no longer menstruate and she cannot become pregnant., as with any surgery, recovery varies from person to person. some women recover more quickly and resume their everyday activities fairly quickly, while others need a bit more time., but in the case of hysterectomy, the surgical method used to remove the uterus will determine the type of recovery to expect., the way in which a hysterectomy is performed can play a major role in your recovery., if you have an abdominal hysterectomy, you will have an 5 to 7 inch incision that needs to heal. this incision is usually closed with stitches or surgical staples. usually, the stitches or staples will have to be removed by your doctor unless dissolvable stitches are used. (1), if you have a vaginal hysterectomy without the assistance of a laparoscope, you will have no visible scarring from the small incision in the vagina made by the surgeon. the internal stitches used will likely dissolve on their own. (2), if you’ve had a vaginal hysterectomy and your surgeon inserted a laparoscope or other instruments into your abdomen, expect to have about two to four incisions, each less than 1 inch long covered with steri-strips that will most likely fall off within a week. (2), the length of a postoperative stay depends on the how the surgery was performed. women who’ve had an abdominal hysterectomy may stay in the hospital for one to two days., vaginal, laparoscopic-assisted vaginal, or robotic-assisted procedures are usually done on an outpatient basis. in most cases, a woman who has these less invasive procedures will go home the same day, after the procedure., be sure to discuss with your doctor in advance the various scenarios you may expect after surgery., if you have an abdominal hysterectomy it may take a few days before you can tolerate food and resume eating. the anesthesia, along with the manipulation of your organs that happens during the procedure can cause the bowels to temporarily shut down. by the time you’ve been discharged, you should be passing gas. it might take two to four more days before you have your first post-op bowel movement. (3), if you undergo an abdominal hysterectomy your postoperative pain is generally greater than the pain after a laparoscopic or vaginal hysterectomy., but this pain generally responds to narcotics that are given during the first 24 hours and perhaps for a bit longer if needed. by the second day, you may find that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids), such as ibuprofen (advil or motrin), are enough to alleviate the pain., some women may not need any pain medication at all. but if they do, it can be controlled., if you have abdominal surgery, complete recovery can take six to eight weeks, so you must be patient and allow your body to heal. for at least six weeks, avoid any heavy lifting (meaning items over 20 pounds). do not do any housework, such as vacuuming, until you’ve discussed it with your doctor. you must also abstain from sexual intercourse for at least six weeks. and do not put anything, including tampons, into your vagina., if you have a vaginal hysterectomy or a laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy recovery can be as short as two weeks. pain is generally minimal. you may feel some achiness and tenderness at the incision sites (if the surgery was performed laparoscopically). most women will be advised to avoid heavy lifting and abstain from sex for at least six weeks., complications are usually rare; call your doctor if you experience any of the following:, if you have a vaginal hysterectomy you may experience some light bleeding that comes and goes during the first few weeks following surgery. typically this will decrease over time., although you need plenty of rest following surgery, it’s important to get up and move around as soon as possible. pace yourself and listen to your body. it’s completely normal to feel some fatigue., you may need to take anywhere from two to six weeks off of work depending on the type of procedure., you can resume normal exercise about six to eight weeks following an abdominal hysterectomy. if the procedure is laparoscopic, you might be able to resume exercising in two to four weeks., “women have a wide range of emotions when it comes to having hysterectomy,” says leena nathan, md, assistant clinical professor at ucla health obstetrics and gynecology in westlake village, california. “for women who are perimenopausal and suffering from fibroids or bleeding issues, there is sense of relief when they have a permanent solution to their problems.”, “for women of childbearing age who are have a hysterectomy for cancer or precancer, there can be a profound sense of loss, disappointment, and guilt,” adds dr. nathan., long-term effects vary from woman to woman depending on age, health, which organs were removed, and other factors., if you have your ovaries removed at the time of your hysterectomy and you haven’t reached menopause prior to the surgery, you will immediately start experiencing symptoms such as hot flashes, mood swings, and vaginal dryness., during the natural lead up to menopause, estrogen levels lower gradually, but surgical removal of the ovaries may cause estrogen levels to plummet. your doctor may suggest hormone replacement therapy to alleviate some of more severe symptoms of menopause., some women develop pelvic weakness following a hysterectomy, which can lead to bladder or bowel problems, including urinary incontinence. sometimes corrective surgery is needed., oophorectomy is the medical term for removing a woman’s ovaries., for many years, research has indicated that whenever possible, it’s best not to remove the ovaries with hysterectomy because the organs will continue to produce estrogen that is essential for bone health and can help protect you from heart disease., but now, scientists are discovering that some of these problems seem to occur even when the ovaries are preserved or not removed. “several recent studies have also shown long term risks including coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure,” says shannon laughlin-tommasso, md, obstetrician and gynecologist at the mayo clinic in rochester, minnesota. dr. laughlin-tommasso authored one such study, published in may 2018 in the journal menopause.(4), by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., references, , sources, , research raises questions about the connection between uterus removal and mental health., in most cases, hysterectomy, or surgical removal of the uterus, is elective rather than medically necessary., hysterectomy type depends on which organs or structures, besides the uterus, are removed as well as how the surgery is performed., fibroids, endometriosis, and other conditions that may involve pelvic pain are sometimes treated with hysterectomy, or removal of the uterus., a draft opinion from the u.s. supreme court strikes down the federal right to abortion guaranteed by the 1973 decision in roe v. wade and would leave ..., the uspstf reviewed current evidence and reaffirmed an earlier recommendation., women with obesity who go through menopause at 55 or older are more likely to develop heart failure later in life, a new study suggests., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][recovery after hysterectomy: what to know, hysterectomy surgery and recovery: factors to consider, methods matter: what to know about hysterectomy side effects, scarring, and long-term healing, how long do women need to stay in the hospital after hysterectomy?, can women eat immediately after undergoing hysterectomy?, does hysterectomy cause a lot of postoperative pain?, how long does it take to fully recover from hysterectomy?, risks related to hysterectomy or surgical removal of the uterus, hysterectomy and short-term side effects, getting back into daily life, returning to work after hysterectomy, exercise and physical activity after hysterectomy, the emotional impact after the uterus is removed, hysterectomy and potential long-term effects, hysterectomy and surgical or induced menopause: what to expect, long-term health effects related to hysterectomy, oophorectomy: when ovaries are removed during hysterectomy, resources we love, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in hysterectomy, hysterectomy linked to increased risk for depression, other mood disorders, says study, hysterectomy: facts about removal of the uterus, including risks, benefits, minimally invasive versions, and alternatives, resource center for hysterectomy, fibroids, and other conditions related to uterus removal, hysterectomy: do you really need it?, your hysterectomy choices: different types and methods of uterus removal, alternatives to hysterectomy (surgical removal of uterus), symptoms and conditions that may be treated with hysterectomy, is this the end of roe v. wade? what would a scotus decision mean for reproductive health?, post-menopausal women should not take hormone therapy to prevent chronic conditions, obesity increases heart failure risk associated with late menopause, onset of menopause before age 45 is linked to higher risk of dementia later in life, sex after menopause: the psychological factor, what is vaginal dryness? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention]recovery from abdominal hysterectomy takes time, patience | everyday health[the surgical method used to remove the uterus determines the recovery to expect., references, sources][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, fever or chills, heavy bleeding or unusual vaginal mucus or discharge, severe pain, redness or discharge from incisions, problems with urinating or having a bowel movement, shortness of breath or chest pain, abdominal hysterectomy. mayo clinic. january 31, 2018., vaginal hysterectomy. mayo clinic. january 31, 2018., patient faqs after surgery. unc school of medicine., s. k. laughlin-tommaso, et al. cardiovascular and metabolic morbidity after hysterectomy with ovarian conservation: a cohort study. menopause, may 2018., incision care after surgery. comprehensive gynecology center. march 29, 2018., hot flashes. mayo clinic. february 10, 2018., hysterectomy, vaginal medlineplus. august 14, 2018., hysterectomy, national women’s health network., hysterectomy, office of women’s health., pain control after surgery. cleveland clinic. october 2, 2017., patient education: care after gynecologic surgery (beyond the basics). uptodate. january 29, 2018., postoperative bleeding. drugs.com. january 30, 2018., postoperative fever. uptodate. january 11, 2018., precancerous changes to the cervix. texas oncology., raghvendra kp, thapa d, mitra s, et al. postoperative pain relief following hysterectomy: a randomized controlled trial. journal of mid-life health. april–june 2016., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]