[i f you’re in the market for a new type of birth control, you might consider a method you don’t have to think about every day, or every time you have sex., one of the most effective, if sometimes confusing, options for contraception is an intrauterine device (iud)., as its name implies, an iud is a small device, made of flexible plastic in the shape of a t, that is placed inside your uterus. the contraception lasts for years, but the method is reversible because your doctor can remove it whenever you desire or when it has reached the end of its effectiveness., "iuds are a good option for women because they are long-acting and reversible, and some types offer benefits beyond contraception," such as helping to reduce heavy menstrual bleeding, says christopher destephano, md, mph, a gynecologist at the mayo clinic in jacksonville, florida., iuds are a type of contraception known as long-acting reversible contraception, or larc. another larc is a contraceptive implant such as nexplanon or implanon. in recent years, larcs have become more popular in the united states as a birth control method. the increasing interest in the iud, a relatively expensive contraceptive option, is attributed, in part, to the passing of the affordable care act in 2010, which made most health insurers cover at least one form of the iud. what's more, one study published in jama internal medicine in february 2019 found insertion rates jumped 21 percent in the 30 days after the 2016 election, probably because of concerns that the new administration would eliminate the existing mandate for free or inexpensive birth control., with an effectiveness rate of more than 99 percent, iuds are one of the most dependable methods of pregnancy prevention. they are as effective as tubal ligation or permanent sterilization. but unlike sterilization, this method is completely reversible. once your doctor removes it, you can get pregnant, possibly even right away., the cost of getting an iud and having it inserted varies greatly. but today, many people with health insurance pay nothing. (others pay as much as $1,300, according to planned parenthood.), there are two types of iuds: those with hormones and those without. the hormonal iuds have been shown to cut down on menstrual cramps and make your periods lighter — in some cases stopping them altogether, according to planned parenthood., iuds do not protect against sexually transmitted diseases (stds). you’ll need to use a condom along with the iud when you are at risk of an std., relatively speaking, iuds are not the most accessible form of contraception available today. unlike other methods, such as birth control pills or even a self-administered depo provera shot (known as subq depo), iuds must be inserted by a trained medical professional in a sterile environment like a doctor’s office., other options, like the pill, are easier to get compared with an iud. for women who want privacy, convenience, or who don’t live near a physician, “telehealth and telemedicine are great ways to access birth control,” says robin watkins, the director of healthcare for power to decide, a nonprofit that runs the online birth control support network bedsider. remote consultations and mail delivery are not possible for birth control methods that require a trained professional to insert and remove the device, watkins observes., the most common risks for an iud are infection soon after insertion. fewer than one percent of users may get a serious pelvic infection called pelvic inflammatory disease (pid). there’s also the possibility that it can be unexpectedly expelled from your body or embedded in your uterus; while the latter occurrence can be serious, it is extremely rare, dr. destephano says. hormones in certain brands may cause symptoms such as acne, he notes., when an iud is no longer desired or needed, or expires, a medical profession removes the device by tugging on the tiny strings attached to it., there are currently five brands of iuds on the market. one, paragard, distributed by coopersurgical, wraps a thin layer of copper around the plastic device, offering an iud option that doesn't involve the use of supplemental hormones., paragard can also be used as emergency contraception. when inserted within five days of unprotected sex, it is more than 99.9 percent effective at preventing pregnancy, planned parenthood says., the other four brands (liletta, mirena, kyleena, and skyla), contain varying amounts of progestin in the form of levonorgestrel (lng). tiny amounts of this hormone are released over time into the uterus to prevent pregnancy. unlike with the birth control pill, there is no estrogen in an iud., hormonal iuds may also help lower your cancer risk. a meta-analysis published in obstetrics and gynecology in october 2019 found that the use of these iuds is associated with a reduced risk of ovarian cancer., the first decision you must make with your doctor is whether you want a copper or a hormonal option. reviewing the facts below, and discussing them with your doctor, will help you make an informed decision., if you do choose a hormonal iud, several factors go into selecting the brand, says courtney benedict, a certified nurse midwife and the associate director of medical standards implementation at planned parenthood federation of america., “all hormonal iuds are progestin-only, but the dosing varies,” benedict says. differences in dosing play a role in how long the iud remains effective, she says. plus, “dosing concentrations may affect how light or heavy your period is. the higher the dose of hormone, the lighter your period tends to be,” although that won’t necessarily determine whether you have hormone side effects like spotting, mood changes, or weight gain, she says., another factor for choosing an iud may depend on the one(s) that your health insurance provider will pay for, as well as the one(s) your doctor’s health system carries, destephano says., the decision of whether to get an iud and which brand “is a complex one,” destephano says. shared decision-making between the patient and her doctor is important. “if you’re not comfortable with the counseling you’re getting from your doctor, get another opinion,” he says, noting that ultimately, it’s up to you to decide which option is best for you., additional reporting by avery miles., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][which iud is right for you?, iuds: how do they work?, iuds have many important health benefits, iuds aren’t perfect — some cons to note, what is the difference between copper and hormonal iuds?, which iud is the right contraceptive device for you?, top facts to know about each device, paragard copper iud, liletta hormonal iud, mirena hormonal iud, kyleena hormonal iud, skyla hormonal iud, most recent in women's health, 15 self-care gifts wellness pros love, is this the end of roe v. wade? what would a scotus decision mean for reproductive health?, more than half of women over age 50 have thinning hair, hormone replacement therapy may reduce the risk of covid-19 death in post-menopausal women]which iud is right for you? pros and cons of different types of intrauterine devices | everyday health[top facts to know about each device, paragard copper iud, how paragard works, how long paragard provides pregnancy protection, dosage of hormones, how paragard impacts your period, when can you become pregnant after removal, liletta hormonal iud, how liletta works, how long liletta provides pregnancy protection, dosage of hormones, how liletta affects your period, when you can become pregnant after removal, mirena hormonal iud, how mirena works, how long mirena provides pregnancy protection, dosage of hormones, how mirena affects your period, when you can become pregnant after removal, kyleena hormonal iud, how kyleena works, how long kyleena provides pregnancy protection, dosage of hormones, how kyleena affects your period, when you can become pregnant after removal, skyla hormonal iud, how skyla works, how long skyla provides pregnancy protection, dosage of hormones, how skyla affects your period , when you can become pregnant after removal][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, how paragard works it prevents sperm from reaching the egg or fertilizing the egg, and it might prevent implantation in the uterus. it does not, however, stop your ovaries from making an egg (ovulating) each month., how long paragard provides pregnancy protection up to 10 years, dosage of hormones 0, how paragard impacts your period your period may become heavier and longer. you may also have frequent spotting between periods., when can you become pregnant after removal possibly immediately, how liletta works several ways, including thickening cervical mucus, inhibiting sperm movement, reducing sperm survival, and thinning the lining of your uterus, how long liletta provides pregnancy protection up to 6 years, dosage of hormones the initial release rate of levonorgestrel (lng) is approximately 20 micrograms (mcg) per day and declines progressively to approximately 8.6 mcg/day after 6 years., how liletta affects your period after your body adjusts to the hormones, your periods may lessen or even stop altogether., when you can become pregnant after removal possibly immediately, how mirena works several ways, including thickening cervical mucus, inhibiting sperm movement, reducing sperm survival, and thinning the lining of your uterus, how long mirena provides pregnancy protection up to 5 years, dosage of hormones the initial release rate of levonorgestrel (lng) is 20 mcg/day; this is reduced by about 50 percent after 5 years, how mirena affects your period after your body adjusts, your periods may lessen or end altogether. mirena is the only iud that is also approved by the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding., when you can become pregnant after removal possibly immediately, how kyleena works several ways, including thickening cervical mucus, inhibiting sperm movement, reducing sperm survival, and thinning the lining of your uterus, how long kyleena provides pregnancy protection up to 5 years, dosage of hormones release of levonorgestrel (lng) is 17.5 mcg/day; this declines to 7.4 mcg/day after 5 years, how kyleena affects your period your period may become irregular and the number of bleeding days may increase. you may also have frequent spotting or light bleeding. after you have used it for a while, the number of bleeding and spotting days is likely to lessen., when you can become pregnant after removal possibly immediately, how skyla works several ways, including thickening cervical mucus, inhibiting sperm movement, reducing sperm survival, and thinning the lining of your uterus, how long skyla provides pregnancy protection up to 3 years, dosage of hormones the release rate of levonorgestrel (lng) is 14 mcg/day; this declines to 5 mcg/day after 3 years, how skyla affects your period you may have bleeding and spotting between menstrual periods, especially during the first 3 to 6 months. sometimes the bleeding is heavier than usual at first. over time this bleeding usually becomes lighter than usual and may be irregular., when you can become pregnant after removal possibly immediately, about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]