[adding these 10 simple self-care strategies to your daily routine can be effective for managing depression., winter weather can affect how plants bloom in the spring. and this means a winter blizzard can make allergy symptoms worse as trees start to bloom in warmer weather., easter games and activities are a blast for kids. here are 12 unique ideas to try this year., experts say slowly adjusting your sleep schedule as well as exercising more can help you ease into the end of daylight saving time in the fall., getting in touch with your body has plenty of benefits., keratin is a type of protein that boosts the health of your hair, skin, and nails. here are 10 foods that promote keratin production., everyone has anxiety from time to time, but chronic anxiety can interfere with your quality of life. while perhaps most recognized for behavioral changes, anxiety can also have serious consequences on your physical health. read on to learn more about the major effects anxiety has on your body., if you have obesophobia, you might try to avoid weight gain through unhealthy behaviors. this may include exercising excessively, restricting food intake, or frequently dieting., a new study found that people whose weight fluctuates early in a weight loss program have worse long-term results., more research is needed to understand the root cause, but researchers say the evidence strongly suggests statins are not behind the aches and pains., this article compares the ketogenic diet and ww (formerly known as weight watchers) and discusses which is better for weight loss., miso soup is a traditional japanese soup comprising a base stock, miso paste, and various other ingredients depending on the recipe. this article examines whether miso soup is considered vegan., the company has added a trio of new menu items, but experts warn the high sugar content they contain makes them more of a sweet treat than a refreshing spring drink., if you’re looking for an alternative to dieting that puts you back in touch with your body and hunger cues, intuitive eating might work for you. but after decades of dieting, the first week of intuitive eating was challenging and eye-opening for one woman. here’s what she learned., red leaf lettuce is a colorful addition to your favorite salads and sandwiches. here are 9 health and nutrition benefits of red leaf lettuce., to kick off the season of good (and good-for-you) food, we've gathered 30 inspired recipes starring 17 spring fruits and veggies — along with expert-backed info on their health benefits. enjoy nutritious and delicious favorites including asparagus, artichokes, carrots, fava beans, leeks, peas, and much more., if you live with ibs, you might always stick to the same safe recipes. branch out this spring with some new delicious ideas for breakfast, lunch, and dinner., for a delicious, meatless taco tuesday at the office, give these affordable chickpea taco lettuce wraps a try., to kick off the season of good (and good-for-you) food, we’ve gathered 30 inspired recipes starring 17 spring fruits and veggies — along with expert-backed info on their health benefits. enjoy nutritious and delicious favorites including asparagus, artichokes, carrots, fava beans, leeks, green peas, and much more., if you want to eat healthier, you may be wondering if you can still eat fast food. here's what to consider and avoid at chick-fil-a., given that beans contain some carbs, it can be a challenge to work them into a low carb, high fat keto diet. this article reviews the total and net carb counts of various types of beans, which ones are keto-friendly, and some low carb alternatives., healthline's fit it in is thrilled to present this series of 22-minute yoga videos, led by colleen saidman yee, to help you fit yoga into your everyday life., the best twitter accounts to follow for fitness tips, workout routines, and healthy lifestyle suggestions., eating the right foods after workouts is important for muscle gain, recovery, and performance. here is a guide to optimal post-workout nutrition., ifit is an app the provides access to hundreds of live and on-demand workout classes. see what our expert has to say about ifit and how it compares with similar fitness apps on the market., not all fats are bad for you. in fact, we need some fat for energy and to help our cells grow. learn more about the benefits of fat and how it affects blood sugar here., freshlyfit, a new line of premade meals from the meal delivery service freshly, is designed for those with an active lifestyle. this article looks at how it works, as well as its benefits and downsides., get the facts on the ingredients you don't want to put on your body., cosmetics and skin care products do all have expiration dates, but how long they last depends on certain factors., you may be surprised to learn that your hair and scalp need sun protection too., coconut oil for sex attracts many people looking for an effective and natural lube to increase pleasure and reduce dryness. it’s true that coconut oil has been proven as a moisturizer, but is it really safe for use on sensitive genital areas? we’ll investigate the potential benefits and risks so you don’t have to., should you jump into the shower right after sex? what about anal sex? the answer is simpler than you think. from washing your bits to keeping your bed sheets stain-free, here’s what you need to know about post-sex hygiene., people have anal sex for many reasons, including to avoid pregnancy. but can you get pregnant from anal? we’ll give you the facts and what to consider., you might feel embarrassed for farting during sex, but it's completely normal. in fact, it happens to many people, both men and women., conscious breathing can boost self-awareness, help you feel more present, and ease anxiety and stress. here’s what it involves and how to try it., the next time you start to feel anxious, calm your mind with these ideas that will add tiny bursts of mindfulness to your day., a simple new test, coupled with an mri scan, may reveal clues to what sparks creativity., experts say older adults who take too many pills can develop symptoms similar to those caused by dementia., most of can't relax on cue, but with practice we can learn this sometimes elusive skill., seventeen tips to help you live well with migraine., do you feel the emotions of others? need a lot of alone time? you might be an intuitive empath., the olympic gold medalist shares how she’s taking care of her mental and physical health while continuing to recover from the unexpected knee injury that sidelined her for the 2021 games., this popular oil has a sweet scent and some skin benefits, but it may also irritate skin. what to know., oil pulling involves swishing oil in your mouth. here's a look at 6 science-backed benefits of oil pulling and how to incorporate it into your routine., here are 6 reasons to drink bone broth., breathing, meditation, and cold exposure. can it help the nervous system?, a new study shows that adults with irregular sleep patterns have a higher risk of cardiovascular disease. the study found that an irregular sleep pattern in older adults may be an independent risk factor for cvd., what if all you need to get those elusive zzz’s is a little piece of fabric covering your eyes?, sleeping with earrings is probably ok once in a while, but you don’t want to get in the habit unless it’s a new piercing. we’ll talk about why., if you're comparing lull vs. purple as potential buys, we gathered intel about these bed-in-a-box picks. learn what's the same, how are they different, and what customers said overall., tips for pregnant trans and nonbinary folks seeking quality, compassionate healthcare., justice happens when black people reclaim the opportunities that have been taken away., the fda removed a restriction requiring medication abortions to be prescribed after an in-person medical visit. however, this doesn't lift state restrictions., black breastfeeding week is one of the earliest manifestations of black lives matter. in addressing systemic racism we need to begin from birth., new research from the trevor project finds that more than half of lgbtq youth continue to experience high rates of bullying both in-person and digitally, and are three times more likely to attempt suicide., calls to one helpline spiked after president trump announced he planned to ban transgender people from serving in the military., brandé elise and danielle gray's cbd brand focuses on more than just cannabis. we sat down to chat about mental health, wellness, and cbd for pride., our brands][body talk, food, fitness, beauty, sex, mind, self care, alt health, sleep, perspectives]women's wellness[][health conditions, discover, plan, connect, shop, sex qs, identity, pleasure, birth control, relationships, body talk, food, fitness, beauty, sex, mind, self care, alt health, longevity, perspectives, 10 self-care strategies that help me manage my depression adding these 10 simple self-care strategies to your daily routine can be effective for managing depression., how bad will your allergies be this spring? winter weather can affect how plants bloom in the spring. and this means a winter blizzard can make allergy symptoms worse as trees start to bloom in warmer weather., think outside the egg: easter games for kids easter games and activities are a blast for kids. here are 12 unique ideas to try this year., ‘falling back’ is easier than ‘springing forward’: here’s why experts say slowly adjusting your sleep schedule as well as exercising more can help you ease into the end of daylight saving time in the fall., body awareness: how to deepen your connection with your body getting in touch with your body has plenty of benefits., 10 foods that boost your body's keratin levels keratin is a type of protein that boosts the health of your hair, skin, and nails. here are 10 foods that promote keratin production., effects of anxiety on the body everyone has anxiety from time to time, but chronic anxiety can interfere with your quality of life. while perhaps most recognized for behavioral changes, anxiety can also have serious consequences on your physical health. read on to learn more about the major effects anxiety has on your body., obesophobia: fear of gaining weight if you have obesophobia, you might try to avoid weight gain through unhealthy behaviors. this may include exercising excessively, restricting food intake, or frequently dieting., 'slow but steady' wins the weight loss race a new study found that people whose weight fluctuates early in a weight loss program have worse long-term results., ‘nocebo effect’ may be why people think statins cause muscle pain more research is needed to understand the root cause, but researchers say the evidence strongly suggests statins are not behind the aches and pains., is weight watchers (ww) or keto better for weight loss? this article compares the ketogenic diet and ww (formerly known as weight watchers) and discusses which is better for weight loss., , is miso soup vegan? miso soup is a traditional japanese soup comprising a base stock, miso paste, and various other ingredients depending on the recipe. this article examines whether miso soup is considered vegan. read more, , starbucks is hyping 3 new drinks for spring: here’s how they stack up the company has added a trio of new menu items, but experts warn the high sugar content they contain makes them more of a sweet treat than a refreshing spring drink.read more, 7 things i learned during my first week of intuitive eating if you’re looking for an alternative to dieting that puts you back in touch with your body and hunger cues, intuitive eating might work for you. but after decades of dieting, the first week of intuitive eating was challenging and eye-opening for one woman. here’s what she learned.read more, 9 health and nutrition benefits of red leaf lettuce red leaf lettuce is a colorful addition to your favorite salads and sandwiches. here are 9 health and nutrition benefits of red leaf lettuce.read more, 30 healthy spring recipes: pesto salmon skewers with green couscous to kick off the season of good (and good-for-you) food, we've gathered 30 inspired recipes starring 17 spring fruits and veggies — along with expert-backed info on their health benefits. enjoy nutritious and delicious favorites including asparagus, artichokes, carrots, fava beans, leeks, peas, and much more.read more, 20 ibs-friendly recipes to try this spring if you live with ibs, you might always stick to the same safe recipes. branch out this spring with some new delicious ideas for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.read more, shake things up with these affordable chickpea taco lettuce wraps for a delicious, meatless taco tuesday at the office, give these affordable chickpea taco lettuce wraps a try. read more, 30 healthy spring recipes: rainbow glass noodle salad to kick off the season of good (and good-for-you) food, we’ve gathered 30 inspired recipes starring 17 spring fruits and veggies — along with expert-backed info on their health benefits. enjoy nutritious and delicious favorites including asparagus, artichokes, carrots, fava beans, leeks, green peas, and much more.read more, is chick-fil-a healthy? chicken, sandwiches, soups, and more if you want to eat healthier, you may be wondering if you can still eat fast food. here's what to consider and avoid at chick-fil-a.read more, are beans keto-friendly? given that beans contain some carbs, it can be a challenge to work them into a low carb, high fat keto diet. this article reviews the total and net carb counts of various types of beans, which ones are keto-friendly, and some low carb alternatives.read more, fit it in video series: yoga healthline's fit it in is thrilled to present this series of 22-minute yoga videos, led by colleen saidman yee, to help you fit yoga into your everyday life. read more, fitness and exercise: the best of twitter the best twitter accounts to follow for fitness tips, workout routines, and healthy lifestyle suggestions.read more, post-workout nutrition: what to eat after a workout eating the right foods after workouts is important for muscle gain, recovery, and performance. here is a guide to optimal post-workout nutrition.read more, ifit fitness app: is it worth the money? ifit is an app the provides access to hundreds of live and on-demand workout classes. see what our expert has to say about ifit and how it compares with similar fitness apps on the market. read more, where fats fit in not all fats are bad for you. in fact, we need some fat for energy and to help our cells grow. learn more about the benefits of fat and how it affects blood sugar here.read more, freshlyfit: a comprehensive review freshlyfit, a new line of premade meals from the meal delivery service freshly, is designed for those with an active lifestyle. this article looks at how it works, as well as its benefits and downsides.read more, how to steer clear of toxic makeup ingredients get the facts on the ingredients you don't want to put on your body., when does makeup expire? cosmetics and skin care products do all have expiration dates, but how long they last depends on certain factors., what is denatured alcohol and why is it in my skincare products?, is hair sunscreen a thing? what the experts say you may be surprised to learn that your hair and scalp need sun protection too., is coconut oil a safe lube for sex? coconut oil for sex attracts many people looking for an effective and natural lube to increase pleasure and reduce dryness. it’s true that coconut oil has been proven as a moisturizer, but is it really safe for use on sensitive genital areas? we’ll investigate the potential benefits and risks so you don’t have to.read more, how to clean up after sex should you jump into the shower right after sex? what about anal sex? the answer is simpler than you think. from washing your bits to keeping your bed sheets stain-free, here’s what you need to know about post-sex hygiene. read more, is it possible to get pregnant through anal sex? people have anal sex for many reasons, including to avoid pregnancy. but can you get pregnant from anal? we’ll give you the facts and what to consider.read more, what causes farting during sex? you might feel embarrassed for farting during sex, but it's completely normal. in fact, it happens to many people, both men and women.read more, how to practice conscious breathing to reduce stress and anxiety conscious breathing can boost self-awareness, help you feel more present, and ease anxiety and stress. here’s what it involves and how to try it., 14 mindfulness tricks to reduce anxiety the next time you start to feel anxious, calm your mind with these ideas that will add tiny bursts of mindfulness to your day., a look inside the creative mind a simple new test, coupled with an mri scan, may reveal clues to what sparks creativity., 'medication fog': what it is and how it can cause dementia-like… experts say older adults who take too many pills can develop symptoms similar to those caused by dementia., present tense: relaxation is a skill, not a luxury most of can't relax on cue, but with practice we can learn this sometimes elusive skill., self-care tips for migraine seventeen tips to help you live well with migraine., intuitive empaths: signs, types, downsides, and self-care do you feel the emotions of others? need a lot of alone time? you might be an intuitive empath., how olympic gymnast laurie hernandez practices self-care the olympic gold medalist shares how she’s taking care of her mental and physical health while continuing to recover from the unexpected knee injury that sidelined her for the 2021 games., the skin benefits of palmarosa oil, plus recipes and safety tips this popular oil has a sweet scent and some skin benefits, but it may also irritate skin. what to know., 6 benefits of oil pulling — plus how to do it oil pulling involves swishing oil in your mouth. here's a look at 6 science-backed benefits of oil pulling and how to incorporate it into your routine., bone broth: how to make it and 6 reasons why you should here are 6 reasons to drink bone broth., the wim hof method: boost your health with the iceman’s technique breathing, meditation, and cold exposure. can it help the nervous system?, why irregular sleep patterns may affect your heart health a new study shows that adults with irregular sleep patterns have a higher risk of cardiovascular disease. the study found that an irregular sleep pattern in older adults may be an independent risk factor for cvd., trouble sleeping? a sleep mask could be a game-changer what if all you need to get those elusive zzz’s is a little piece of fabric covering your eyes?, is it ok to sleep with earrings in? sleeping with earrings is probably ok once in a while, but you don’t want to get in the habit unless it’s a new piercing. we’ll talk about why., the lull mattress vs. the purple mattress if you're comparing lull vs. purple as potential buys, we gathered intel about these bed-in-a-box picks. learn what's the same, how are they different, and what customers said overall., trans and pregnant: how to find competent, gender-affirming healthcare tips for pregnant trans and nonbinary folks seeking quality, compassionate healthcare. read more, black health matters: wealth is health justice happens when black people reclaim the opportunities that have been taken away.read more, fda decides to make medical abortions easier to get the fda removed a restriction requiring medication abortions to be prescribed after an in-person medical visit. however, this doesn't lift state restrictions.read more, black breastfeeding is a racial equity issue black breastfeeding week is one of the earliest manifestations of black lives matter. in addressing systemic racism we need to begin from birth.read more, lgbtq youth are still experiencing high rates of bullying in-person and online new research from the trevor project finds that more than half of lgbtq youth continue to experience high rates of bullying both in-person and digitally, and are three times more likely to attempt suicide.read more, mental health experts call president’s tweets ‘devastating’ for trans teens calls to one helpline spiked after president trump announced he planned to ban transgender people from serving in the military. read more, inside the world of unoia, a black-, lgbtq-owned cbd brand brandé elise and danielle gray's cbd brand focuses on more than just cannabis. we sat down to chat about mental health, wellness, and cbd for pride.read more, about us, contact us, privacy policy, privacy settings, advertising policy, health topics, medical affairs, content integrity, newsletters, © 2005-2022 healthline media a red ventures company. all rights reserved. our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. healthline media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. see additional information.]