[from fatigue to infertility, women with ovarian cancer may experience challenges from both the disease and treatment., if you have ovarian cancer, there’s a good chance that at some point you’ll experience a complication — a problem or side effect of either the disease or treatment. (1), these complications may stem from how advanced your cancer is, the therapy you receive, or other factors., though no one welcomes setbacks, a study published in the journal cancer in august 2019 found that women with ovarian cancer would accept a higher risk of complications from surgery in exchange for substantial gains in survival. (2), the good news is that your healthcare providers can work with you to manage many of the complications you might experience., related: ovarian cancer: causes, risk factors, and prevention, there are a number of different kinds of treatment for ovarian cancer, each with its own potential complications and side effects., surgery is considered the primary treatment option for most women with ovarian cancer. your doctor will decide which surgical method is right for you based on the stage of your cancer and your overall health. (3), surgery for ovarian cancer can lead to complications, such as: (4,5), related: ovarian cancer: understanding genetic testing, chemotherapy, which uses drugs to kill cancer cells in your body, is a common treatment for ovarian cancer., side effects include nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, hair loss, mouth sores, rashes, and fatigue., chemo can also lead to short-term or long-term complications, such as:, related: how to manage the side effects of chemotherapy, radiation uses high energy beams to kill cancer cells. it’s not typically used for ovarian cancer, but it could help treat areas where cancer has spread., side effects are usually temporary and improve after treatment stops. they may include skin changes, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or vaginal irritation (if the pelvis is treated). (7), radiation that’s directed at the pelvic area may also lead to infertility. (5), related: cancer treatment making you feel sick? exercise can help, some women with ovarian cancer benefit from targeted therapy, a treatment that homes in on specific targets on cancer cells., the therapy can cause side effects such as nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, dizziness, fatigue, loss of appetite, weight gain, taste changes, confusion, or pain affecting the muscles, joints, or belly., anemia, heart problems, and abnormal liver tests are some possible complications associated with targeted drugs. rarely, some of these medicines can lead to a blood cancer, such as myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid leukemia. (8), related: should you use medical marijuana, aka medical cannabis, if you have cancer?, ovarian cancer complications can occur when cancer spreads to other parts of the body., often, it’s hard to know which problems are caused by treatment and which are due to advanced cancer., some common complications of advanced ovarian cancer include:, related: diet and cancer: what you need to know — and eat — to feel your best while fighting cancer, your healthcare provider can help you handle complications from treatment or the cancer itself., in addition to medical interventions, acupuncture, massage, meditation, and other mind-body therapies may help. (12), additionally, palliative care, a supportive treatment approach that focuses on managing pain and improving quality of life, may also benefit women who face complications., a palliative care team works with you, your doctor, and your family to provide emotional and spiritual support. the goal is to relieve your symptoms and make you more comfortable. (13), by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., pain from ovarian cancer can be subtle or extensive, but there are pain management strategies that can help., it’s important to know your ovarian cancer risk when family planning and how a prior diagnosis can affect fertility., effective ovarian cancer treatment requires a cooperative approach. learn about the key healthcare providers who should be on your team., whether you’re in the middle of treatment for ovarian cancer or trying to get your strength back after you’ve completed it, a yoga routine may be just..., new treatments for advanced ovarian cancer are helping some women defy the odds. here’s how one 78-year-old and her doctors have kept hope alive for a..., a pelvic exam is usually the first step, followed by blood tests, imaging tests, and surgery., treated at its earliest stage, ovarian cancer has a high survival rate. but women and their doctors often fail to recognize the symptoms, leading to missed..., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][complications of ovarian cancer: how does it affect your body in the short and long term?, complications from treatments, complications from surgery, complications from chemotherapy, complications from radiation therapy, complications from targeted therapy, common complications from ovarian cancer, how to cope with ovarian cancer complications, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in ovarian cancer, finding a cancer diagnosis and coping with infertility, ovarian cancer pain: what it feels like, what causes it, and how women manage it, ovarian cancer and pregnancy: what you need to know, meet your ovarian cancer healthcare team, yoga for ovarian cancer: poses that benefit your health during and after treatment, ovarian cancer awareness month: september 2020, ovarian cancer survivor stories, ovarian cancer: how is ovarian cancer diagnosed?, your everyday guide to living well with ovarian cancer, with ovarian cancer, early detection is key. why is it so hard?, what is colon and rectal cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, what is uterine cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, what is breast cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention]complications of ovarian cancer: how it affects your body | everyday health[related:, ovarian cancer: causes, risk factors, and prevention, complications from treatments, infection, vaginal bleeding, blood clots, bleeding in the abdomen or pelvis, leg swelling, bladder or bowel issues, colostomy bag or catheter, infertility, early menopause, related:, ovarian cancer: understanding genetic testing, complications f, rom, chemo, therapy, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, kidney damage, neuropathy, hearing loss, early menopause, infertility, bone marrow damage, bladder problems, related:, how to manage the side effects of chemotherapy, complications f, rom radiation therapy, related:, cancer treatment making you feel sick? exercise can help, complications f, rom targeted therapy, related:, should you use medical marijuana, aka medical cannabis, if you have cancer?, fatigue or weakness, nausea, vomiting, or constipation, edema, anemia, ascites, bowel or bladder obstruction, pleural effusion, nutrition issues, related:, diet and cancer: what you need to know — and eat — to feel your best while fighting cancer, how to cope with ovarian cancer complications][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, infection you have a higher risk of developing an infection after surgery. symptoms may include fever, chills, sweats, cough, shivering, or swelling or redness around the incision., vaginal bleeding after your procedure, you might experience some vaginal bleeding, similar to a light period, typically for a few days to a few weeks., blood clots you may be at risk for developing a blood clot in your pelvis or legs. to help prevent this, your medical team will encourage you to get up and walk around as soon as possible after your operation. you may also be given injections to thin your blood or be asked to wear special stockings., bleeding in the abdomen or pelvis you’ll likely lose some blood during surgery, and there’s a small chance you could bleed internally afterward., leg swelling if your surgeon removes your lymph nodes, you may experience fluid buildup in your legs or, rarely, in your genital area. tell your doctor if this occurs., bladder or bowel issues when surgeons operate on the pelvis or abdominal area, there’s a risk of damaging the bladder or bowel., colostomy bag or catheter during an ovarian cancer debulking surgery (a technique to remove as much of the tumor as possible), your surgeon may remove part of the colon or bladder. afterward, you may need to wear a colostomy bag to collect stool or a catheter to remove urine. these fixes are usually temporary. (3), infertility if you have surgery to remove both your ovaries, you won’t be able to get pregnant. your doctor can tell you about possible ways to preserve your fertility or other options., early menopause having your ovaries removed during surgery results in menopause if you haven’t already gone through it., anemia this condition is characterized by low red blood cell counts and can cause tiredness and fatigue., leukopenia resulting from low white blood cell counts, this complication can raise your risk of infection., thrombocytopenia the low platelet counts that lead to this condition can lead to easy bruising or bleeding., kidney damage the chemo drug cisplatin can affect your kidneys. your doctor will give you lots of iv fluids to counteract it., neuropathy cisplatin, taxol (paclitaxel), and taxotere (docetaxel) can lead to nerve damage, which may trigger numbness, tingling, or pain in the hands and feet., hearing loss cisplatin can damage nerves to the ear, which can affect hearing., early menopause you might experience menopause sooner than you would have without chemo., infertility some women aren’t able to become pregnant after receiving chemo treatments., bone marrow damage this side effect is rare, but it can happen. if the damage is permanent, it can lead to a bone marrow cancer, such as myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid leukemia., bladder problems the medication ifosfamide may cause irritation and bleeding in the lining of the bladder. (6), fatigue or weakness in one study, 75 percent of women reported this symptom. (9), nausea, vomiting, or constipation these are common gastrointestinal side effects., edema excess fluid buildup in body tissues can cause swelling in the legs or pelvic area., anemia low blood cell counts can be caused by the cancer itself., ascites these are collections of fluid in the abdominal cavity that are caused by the cancer. symptoms of ascites may include swelling, bloating, shortness of breath, indigestion, loss of appetite, or worsened fatigue., bowel or bladder obstruction large tumors may block the intestines or bladder. this can lead to pain and discomfort, and may require corrective procedures., pleural effusion pleural effusion is a buildup of fluid between the thin membranes that line the lungs and the inside of the chest cavity. it can cause breathing difficulties and other symptoms., nutrition issues if you can’t eat on your own because of the side effects of cancer or you’re malnourished, you may receive parenteral nutrition, which involves getting your requirements intravenously (through a vein). (10,11), complication: medical definition. cambridge dictionary., havrilesky lj, et al. patient preferences for attributes of primary surgical debulking versus neoadjuvant chemotherapy for treatment of newly diagnosed ovarian cancer. cancer. august 2019., surgery for ovarian cancer. american cancer society. april 11, 2018., ovarian cancer: problems after surgery. cancer research uk. february 1, 2019., side effects of treatment for ovarian cancer. national ovarian cancer coalition (nocc)., chemotherapy for ovarian cancer. american cancer society. april 11, 2018., radiation therapy for ovarian cancer. american cancer society. april 11, 2018., targeted therapy for ovarian cancer. american cancer society. april 3, 2020., herrinton lj, et al. complications at the end of life in ovarian cancer. journal of pain and symptom management. september 2007., controlling your symptoms. target ovarian cancer. may 2017., treating the symptoms of advanced ovarian cancer. cancer research uk. february 13, 2019., alternative cancer treatments: 10 options to consider. mayo clinic. january 17, 2020., what is palliative care? get palliative care., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]