[a hysterectomy is a surgical operation to remove the uterus, the hollow, pear-shaped muscular organ located in the female lower abdomen and pelvis. this organ, essential to reproduction, sits behind the bladder and in front of the rectum. (1), attached to the uterus on each side is a single fallopian tube and one ovary., during pregnancy, a fertilized egg implants itself in the lining of the uterus where the developing fetus is nourished prior to birth. (2), after undergoing hysterectomy, a woman no longer has menstrual periods and she cannot become pregnant., among american women, hysterectomy is a very common type of surgery. after cesarean section, it is the second most frequently performed surgical procedure for women who are of reproductive age in the united states. (3), each year, approximately 600,000 hysterectomies are performed in the united states. (4), according to the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc), approximately 20 million women in the united states have had a hysterectomy. (5) by age 60, more than one-third of all women in the united states have had a hysterectomy. (3), the majority of these procedures are performed as a treatment for health conditions when alternate therapies, such as medication, hormone treatments, or less invasive surgical procedures have been unsuccessful in completely alleviating symptoms such as bleeding and pain., in far fewer instances, a hysterectomy may be necessary to save a women’s life (for example, to stop life-threatening bleeding after the birth of a baby) or to help prevent the spread of certain gynecological cancers., there are essentially three types of hysterectomy, depending on which structures are removed:, sometimes a surgeon will perform additional surgeries at the time of hysterectomy., one or both of your ovaries may also be removed. this is called a salpingo-oophorectomy. an oophorectomy is the surgical removal of the ovaries., a salpingectomy is the removal of the fallopian tubes. the ovaries and tubes may be removed in certain situations — for example, when they are affected by endometriosis. (7), there are several approaches to hysterectomy. the uterus can be removed through an open incision in the lower abdomen, through the vagina, or with a laparoscopic technique in which the uterus is removed through a few small incisions made in the abdomen., each option involves unique risks and benefits, and recovery time can vary depending on the method used. in some instances a women’s choice of procedure is limited — for example, if she has a very large uterus, a vaginal or laparoscopic procedure may not be an option., an abdominal hysterectomy offers the surgeon the most flexibility. it may be recommended over other types of hysterectomy if you have a large uterus, or you have lots of scar tissue from previous abdominal surgeries, are obese, or if there is a known cancer. abdominal hysterectomy is the most common method used in the united states., an average surgery takes approximately one to two hours. (8), both vaginal and laparoscopic techniques are considered minimally invasive because surgeons make smaller incisions and use smaller surgical instruments. (9), during a vaginal hysterectomy, the uterus is removed through the vagina. no abdominal incision is made. vaginal hysterectomy generally causes fewer complications than either abdominal or laparoscopic surgery. recovery time is also shorter for the most part. whenever possible, it is the preferred method. you can expect to be in the operating room for about one to two hours. (8), learn more about types and methods of hysterectomy, with this procedure, surgeons only need to make a few small (about ½ inch) incisions in the abdomen. then a laparoscope — a fiber optic instrument — is inserted in one of these openings. the laparoscope allows the surgeon to see the pelvic organs. the uterus can be removed in small pieces through the incisions, through a larger incision made in the abdomen, or through the vagina (a procedure known as laparoscopic vaginal hysterectomy, or lavh). this method results in less infection than the abdominal option. the procedure takes about two hours. (8), most hysterectomies are elective, which means a woman should have time and opportunity to explore and discuss other options to manage pain and other symptoms., with the exception of certain gynecological cancers or a rare emergency, such as uncontrollable bleeding after childbirth, there are alternatives to hysterectomy that can treat every condition and symptom where surgical removal of the uterus is considered. treatment options include medication, hormone treatments, and minimally invasive procedures., learn more about alternatives to hysterectomy, ultimately, the root cause or origin of the problematic symptoms governs the solutions. for example, the growth of uterine fibroids, which are noncancerous tumors, may be slowed with medication. pain from endometriosis may respond to orilissa — the brand name for elagolix, a new medication — or other therapies., learn more about symptoms and conditions that may be treated with hysterectomy, hysterectomy can be used to treat several different conditions and problems, many of which have been considered “women problems.”, fibroids are benign (noncancerous) tumors that arise from the smooth muscle cells of the uterus. some estimate that up to 80 percent of all women develop fibroids during their childbearing years. (10) because they often cause no symptoms, doctors usually detect them incidentally during a pelvic exam or a prenatal ultrasound., symptoms include heavy menstrual bleeding, prolonged menstrual periods (lasting more than a week), pelvic pain, frequent urination, low back pain, or painful intercourse., while symptoms often respond to medication or nonsurgical treatment, sometimes the symptoms are severe enough to warrant hysterectomy. hysterectomy is the only permanent solution for uterine fibroids. (11), endometrioisis is a disease in which tissue similar to the lining of the uterus grows in other places in the body. this often painful condition affects about 10 percent of all women of childbearing age. (12) most often endometriosis is found on the ovaries, fallopian tubes, and the peritoneum (pelvic sidewall). it can also appear in the bowel and bladder. rarely, it appears in other parts of the body such as the lungs., symptoms include very painful menstrual cramps, chronic pain in the lower back and pelvis, intestinal pain, bleeding or spotting between periods, and digestive problems, including diarrhea, constipation, or nausea, especially when you are having your period. (13), hormone therapy and pain medication may help alleviate pain. minimally invasive procedures may be performed to remove disease, but often lesions return within a year or two. (14) sometimes after repeated surgical treatments to remove the disease, or instances where hormonal therapy has failed to keep the disease at bay, women opt for a hysterectomy, though it's generally considered a last resort., pregnancy, childbirth, and aging can weaken or stretch a woman’s pelvic supporting tissues and ligaments. in some cases, the uterus can lower or sag into the vagina. women with this condition may experience pelvic pressure, urinary incontinence, or difficulty making a bowel movement., you can sometimes find relief from these symptoms through hysterectomy, along with repair.  (15), heavy bleeding during your period is one example of abnormal uterine bleeding. other instances include bleeding and spotting between periods, bleeding or spotting after sex, menstrual cycles that last longer than 38 days or shorter than 24 days, and bleeding after menopause. benign growths in the uterus, either polyps or fibroids, are common causes. medication is often the first line of treatment. if medication fails to reduce the bleeding, surgical procedures, like endometrial ablation or uterine artery embolization, are further options., sometimes when all other treatments have failed, a woman may opt for a hysterectomy. (16), chronic pelvic pain is pain in the pelvic area that last six months or longer. most chronic pelvic pain can be attributed to endometriosis. other conditions that can lead to chronic pelvic pain include fibroids, ovarian cysts, irritable bowel syndrome, and interstitial cystitis (painful bladder syndrome)., depending on the condition, treatment can include medication, physical therapy, biofeedback, or minimally invasive procedures, such as trigger point injections or peripheral nerve blocks. as a last resort, hysterectomy may be suggested for chronic pelvic pain that hasn’t responded to any other treatment. (17), adenomyosis is a condition in which the tissue that lines the uterus grows inside the walls of the uterus where it doesn’t belong. the displaced tissue continues to act normally — thickening, breaking down, and bleeding — during each menstrual cycle. the condition sometimes results in an enlarged uterus and painful, heavy periods. the disease usually resolves after menopause. doctors treat it in the same way as they do endometriosis. sometimes hormonal treatments help., hysterectomy is the definitive cure for adenomyosis. (8), about 10 percent of hysterectomies are performed to treat cancer. (19) hysterectomy is the main treatment for endometrial cancer, which is the most common gynecologic cancer. physicians consider the surgery the best option in many cases., endometrial cancer is often detected at an early stage due to symptoms like abnormal vaginal bleeding, which might precipitate a doctor visit. hysterectomy can often cure the cancer. (20), unlike endometrial cancer, which is often caught in earlier stages, ovarian cancer, which begins in the ovaries, often goes undetected until it has spread within the pelvis and abdomen. treatment for ovarian cancer usually involves a combination of surgery and chemotherapy. the surgery may involve hysterectomy, especially if the cancer is extensive. (21), hysterectomy is also the most common treatment for early-stage cervical cancers, which begin in the cells lining the cervix, the lower part of the uterus., only about 10 percent of the more than 600,000 hysterectomies performed in the united states each year are for cancer treatment and are considered potentially lifesaving. the rest of the hysterectomies performed are essentially elective procedures, and some experts believe that many of them are unnecessary., for example, problematic uterine fibroids may be addressed via alternative treatments, such as hormonal medication, uterine artery embolization, or myomectomy., learn more about hysterectomy: do you really need it?, yes. with a less than 1 percent mortality rate, the procedure is considered to be a safe, low-risk surgery. (3), while hysterectomy is one of the safest surgical procedures, it is still surgery, so problems can occur., risks associated with hysterectomy include: (22), related: hysterectomy linked to increased risk for depression, other mood disorders, says study, women who enter menopause at a later age have slightly better recall than women going through this change earlier, a new british study has found., you may need to stay in the hospital for a day or two, sometimes a bit longer following abdominal hysterectomy. if a woman has a laparoscopic hysterectomy, she can often go home the same day., you can expect some pain for the first few days, but medication should help., you must avoid vaginal intercourse and any heavy (over 20 pounds) lifting for six weeks following surgery., recovery time for an abdominal hysterectomy is approximately six weeks., full recovery after vaginal hysterectomy may take three to four weeks. (23), learn more about recovery after hysterectomy, if you’re considering having a hysterectomy or are looking for alternative or less-invasive treatment options, these websites, organizations, support groups, and articles will help you better understand your medical choices. by weighing the risks and benefits of hysterectomy alongside various procedures and treatments, you can make a more informed decision regarding your own healthcare., american society for reproductive medicine (asrm), 205-978-5005, founded in 1944 by a small group of fertility experts, the asrm is a great source for information on any number of topics related to reproductive medicine. two particular educational videos worth taking a look at on the asrm patient site deal with endometriosis and fibroid tumors., cleveland clinic, 800-223-2273, cleveland clinic is an excellent go-to source for medical information. the site’s easy to follow hysterectomy section cover topics from procedure details to recovery., johns hopkins medicine, 410-955-5000 (maryland residents only); 410-464-6555 (outside maryland), if you’re looking for a quick overview of the different types to hysterectomy, you can find one on this famed medical institution’s site., mayo clinic, mayo clinic is ranked no. 1 on the u.s. world and news & world report 2018–2019 best hospitals honor roll. not surprisingly, mayo clinic’s website is an excellent place to find insightful info on any given medical topic. in addition to several useful articles on all aspects of hysterectomy and it’s related conditions, you can view a helpful q&a with a mayo clinic gynecologic surgeon where she discusses, among other topics, the advantages and disadvantages of different hysterectomy approaches and provides advice on how to choose the right hysterectomy., obgyn.net, you’ll find some interesting articles on this site covering topics like open (abdominal) hysterectomy and pelvic pain., office on women’s health (owh), if you’re looking to better understand all matter hysterectomy-related, the office on women’s health is a great resource. a division within the department of health and human services (hhs), owh addresses critical women’s health issues, in part through educating consumers. here you can find fact sheets full of accessible info on hysterectomy and read blog posts by women who have had the surgery already. you can also get information about hysterectomy by calling the owh helpline at 800-994-9662., misforwomen.com, a service of the aagl (formerly known as the american association of gynecologic laparoscopists), the leading association promoting minimally invasive gynecologic surgery, this group’s online video library contains interviews with surgeons discussing minimally invasive options for treating fibroids, abnormal uterine bleeding, pelvic organ prolapse, and other conditions. the physician finder tool can also help you locate surgeons in your area., medlineplus, a resource of the u.s. national library of medicine, this online medical encyclopedia contains authoritative and up-to-date info on over 1000 medical issues and topics, including hysterectomy. it's an essential go-to., american cancer society, just thinking about cancer can be overwhelming — and it can be hard to navigate through all the online content that’s out there. if you’ve been diagnosed or are facing the prospect of cancer treatment, or even just want to learn more about it, the american cancer society is the greatest resource. here you’ll find informative info on uterine, cervical, and endometrial cancers. you can also call their cancer helpline at 800-227-2345 or live chat through the website., american college of obstetricians and gynecologists (acog), 800-673-8444, acog is the premier organization for obstetricians and gynecologists and providers of women’s healthcare, and it’s patient pages contain fact-filled faq’s on a number of gynecologic problems and procedures, including endometriosis, uterine fibroids, laparoscopy, and hysterectomy., center for uterine fibroids at brigham and women’s hospital, 800-722-5520, check out the center’s "about uterine fibroids" section. it contains comprehensive, clear, and easy-to-follow information about symptoms, diagnosis, and nonsurgical treatment options. one section of note is worth taking a look at, as it examines the role some scientists believe hormones, growth factors, and genes play in fibroid formation and growth. you can also read up on current and past research studies., fibroid relief, 434-220-4859, a recent survey by this group found that women wait an average of 3.6 years before seeking treatment. with this in mind, the group developed a “take five” patient tool — a guide and sort of “conversation starter” which can help you better understand symptoms related to fibroids and arm you with a list of questions to ask your doctor when considering treatment options. designed to help you get treatment sooner, this kind of information is empowering., society of interventional radiology, perhaps your medical team has suggested uterine fibroid embolization (ufe) as an alternative to traditional surgery, but your understanding of this treatment is limited., the society’s report, “the fibroid fix: what women need to know,” is chock-full of information that you’ll certainly find helpful as you explore your options. sir represents more than 800 physicians, scientists, physicians assistants, nurse practitioners, and others practicing interventional radiology, and its online patient center offers a doctor finder database to help you find sir-member interventional radiologists in your area., endometriosis association, founded in milwaukee in 1980, this organization was the first in the world created for those with endometriosis. this site dispels some of the common myths about this often painful and challenging-to-treat disease and provides lots of useful info on diagnosis and treatments. in addition you can find information on coping techniques and nutrition tips., endometriosis foundation of america, this nonprofit, cofounded by padma lakshmi and tamer seckin, md, funds endometriosis research and informs the medical community and the public about the disease, emphasizing the importance of early diagnosis and effective treatments. lena dunham is on the executive board of directors., through the foundation’s website, you can access “the blossom,” the organization’s newsletter, which is rich with endo-related articles, such as a q&a with a researcher who is studying links between the disease and environmental toxicants. you can also find helpful information about exercise and alternative pain therapies, like reiki., american urogynecologic society voices for pfd, 301-273-0570, this is a great site for those seeking to better understand pelvic floor disorders and understand pelvic organ prolapse. childbirth and aging are factors that increase your risk, and here you can learn more about both prevention (check out their fact sheet on pelvic floor exercises) and treatment., american chronic pain association, since 1980, the acpa has offered peer support and education in pain management skills to people with pain and their care providers. this organization’s 152-page “resource guide to chronic pain management” provides in-depth info on all manner of pain treatment from medication to pilates, yoga, and therapeutic massage., aagl, 800-554-aagl (2245), finding the right medical specialist can be daunting, but there are resources that can help with this challenge. established in 1971 and formerly known as the american association of gynecologic laparoscopists, the aagl is a nonprofit association with 7,000 members worldwide working to improve patient care in gynecologic surgery. through their misforwomen.com website, you can search for surgeons by specialty who perform minimally invasive surgery., american college of obstetricians and gynecologists (agog), search the organization’s physician directory by location or name and find additional information, including hospital affiliations, contact information, and languages spoken., american institute of minimally invasive surgery (aimis) , this org’s site offers access to a "find a physician" tool with links to surgeons who perform minimally invasive procedures., hystersisters, there’s hardly a hysterectomy-related topic that you can’t find addressed here; the online community numbers more than 475,000 members and there are over five million posts. the self-described “woman-to-woman” hysterectomy support group also offers a doctor directory where you can search by specialty with links to physician websites., society of laparoendoscopic surgeons (sls), 305-665-9959, sls members specialize in minimally invasive surgeries. a search tool on their website can help you find sls members who may specialize in obstetrics and gynecology., care about fibroids , this nonprofit based in washington, dc, works to bring together women’s health advocacy and policy-focused organizations to advance solutions and increase awareness, research, and education about uterine fibroids. their white paper “uterine fibroids” is an invaluable comprehensive resource for anyone dealing with fibroids., healthywomen, 877-986-9472, for more than 30 years, millions of women have turned to healthy women for clear, concise health information. the nonprofit provides research-based facts on topics including diseases and conditions, healthy aging, and policy issues., hers foundation, 610-667-7757, established in 1982, this foundation has been on the forefront of enlightening women about the alternatives to and the consequences of hysterectomy for nearly four decades. hers provides information on various symptoms and conditions, details alternatives to hysterectomy, and offers free physician referrals and counseling by phone., hystersister, through this group’s website, you can join a huge online community of women to share information about hysterectomy and alternative procedures and obtain advice and support. connecting with and finding support from someone who’s been there can be be invaluable., pass the pearls, this nonprofit’s mission is to spread the word about and improve access to minimally invasive surgery for women. the site offers an interactive map and links to surgeons across the united states who perform minimally invasive surgery., dana-farber cancer institute, what kind of pain can i expect during my recovery? is it normal to feel this tired? you’ll find answers to these questions and others by reading this cancer center’s health library “recovery from hysterectomy” post., videos of hysterectomy and other surgeries, the prospect of surgery can be anxiety-inducing, and for some watching an operation can alleviate some fears. the aagl offers videos of full surgeries that you can watch on their site, including “total vaginal hysterectomy with morcellation,” and “total laparoscopic hysterectomy (tlh) for wide fibroid uterus with control of the uterine artery from its origin.” the site also has a number of webinars on various topics., clinicaltrials.gov, here you can find a searchable database on studies for many conditions related to hysterectomy., consider getting a second opinion if your doctor recommends hysterectomy. it is a permanent, irreversible procedure, and in most cases, surgical removal of the uterus is elective rather than medically necessary surgery., learn more about hysterectomy information and resources, despite the fact that hysterectomy is one of the most common surgeries for women living in the united states, many myths and misunderstandings about the surgical removal of the uterus exist., the procedure has been performed for thousands of years, and was used to treat women diagnosed with "hysteria" or problems similar to anxiety and depression. today hysterectomy is one of many options if you have fibroids (noncancerous tumors) or excessively heavy periods. if you are considering undergoing the surgery, be sure to have a comprehensive and frank discussion with your doctor before making any decisions., learn more about what your doctor won’t tell you about hysterectomy, by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., references, , sources, , research raises questions about the connection between uterus removal and mental health., in most cases, hysterectomy, or surgical removal of the uterus, is elective rather than medically necessary., hysterectomy type depends on which organs or structures, besides the uterus, are removed as well as how the surgery is performed., the surgical method used to remove the uterus determines the recovery to expect., fibroids, endometriosis, and other conditions that may involve pelvic pain are sometimes treated with hysterectomy, or removal of the uterus., a draft opinion from the u.s. supreme court strikes down the federal right to abortion guaranteed by the 1973 decision in roe v. wade and would leave ..., the uspstf reviewed current evidence and reaffirmed an earlier recommendation., women with obesity who go through menopause at 55 or older are more likely to develop heart failure later in life, a new study suggests., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][hysterectomy: facts about removal of the uterus, including risks, benefits, minimally invasive versions, and alternatives, how common is hysterectomy, or surgical removal of the uterus?, hysterectomy surgery: what is removed or taken out?, besides the uterus and the cervix, what other organs or structures are removed as part of a hysterectomy?, common questions & answers, most recent in women's health, hysterectomy linked to increased risk for depression, other mood disorders, says study, resource center for hysterectomy, fibroids, and other conditions related to uterus removal, hysterectomy: do you really need it?, your hysterectomy choices: different types and methods of uterus removal, how is hysterectomy surgery performed?, what less or minimally invasive hysterectomy options are available?, how laparoscopic hysterectomy is performed, treatment options that aren’t hysterectomy, editor's picks in women's health, endometriosis treatments and therapies, alternatives to hysterectomy (surgical removal of uterus), the wild history of women’s hormone therapy, what is progesterone?, the root problem determines medical treatment options, conditions and symptoms that may warrant hysterectomy, uterine fibroids: noncancerous tumors that can cause pain and other symptoms, signs and symptoms of uterine fibroids, endometriosis: a disease in which uterine lining grows outside the uterus, causing symptoms such as pain and infertility, other conditions that may warrant surgical removal of uterus or hysterectomy, pelvic support problems, such as pelvic organ prolapse, abnormal uterine bleeding, chronic pelvic pain, adenomyosis, is hysterectomy a treatment for cancer?, related conditions, symptoms and procedures, is hysterectomy medically necessary and appropriate?, is hysterectomy, or surgical removal of the uterus, considered safe?, the health risks of hysterectomy surgery, most popular in women's health, 10 things your doctor won’t tell you about hysterectomy, endometriosis symptoms and diagnosis, what are the best and worst birth control options?, what is estrogen?, later menopause linked to better memory, study shows, how long do women who undergo hysterectomy have to stay in the hospital?, recovery from hysterectomy and what post-op healing involves, resources we love, essential hysterectomy info: methods, conditions, and alternative treatments, essential information on treating conditions related to hysterectomy, fibroids, endometriosis, pelvic organ prolapse, chronic pelvic pain, how to find a doctor who specializes in minimally invasive hysterectomy and surgery: tips from experts, health websites with physician search tools and doctor finder help, advocacy for people living with health issues related to hysterectomy, our favorite surgery recovery tips and ‘after hysterectomy’ resources, hysterectomy and related conditions: books and articles, clinical trials for health conditions related to hysterectomy, get all the facts about hysterectomy, your sex life might not be discussed before hysterectomy, editorial sources and fact-checking, the latest in hysterectomy, hysterectomy linked to increased risk for depression, other mood disorders, says study, resource center for hysterectomy, fibroids, and other conditions related to uterus removal, hysterectomy: do you really need it?, your hysterectomy choices: different types and methods of uterus removal, recovery after hysterectomy: what to know, alternatives to hysterectomy (surgical removal of uterus), symptoms and conditions that may be treated with hysterectomy, is this the end of roe v. wade? what would a scotus decision mean for reproductive health?, post-menopausal women should not take hormone therapy to prevent chronic conditions, obesity increases heart failure risk associated with late menopause, breast cancer: how is invasive ductal carcinoma (idc) treated?, what are common gallbladder problems? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, 4 causes of bladder pain: know the signs]hysterectomy: must-know info about surgical removal of uterus | everyday health[total hysterectomy, supracervical (also known as a subtotal or partial) hysterectomy, , radical hysterectomy, learn more about types and methods of hysterectomy, learn more about alternatives to hysterectomy, learn more about, symptoms and conditions that may be treated with hysterectomy, learn more about hysterectomy: do you really need it?, related: hysterectomy linked to increased risk for depression, other mood disorders, says study, learn more about recovery after hysterectomy, essential, hysterectomy info: methods, conditions, and alternative treatments, american society for reproductive medicine (asrm), cleveland clinic, johns hopkins medicine, mayo clinic, obgyn.net, office on women’s health (owh), misforwomen.com, medlineplus, american cancer society, american college of obstetricians and gynecologists, (acog), essential information on treating conditions related to hysterectomy, fibroids, center for uterine fibroids at brigham and women’s hospital, fibroid relief, society of interventional radiology, endometriosis, endometriosis association, endometriosis foundation of america, pelvic organ prolapse, american urogynecologic society voices for pfd, chronic pelvic pain, american chronic pain association, how to find a doctor who specializes in minimally invasive hysterectomy and surgery: tips from experts, health websites with physician search tools and doctor finder help, aagl, american college of obstetricians and gynecologists (agog), american institute of minimally invasive surgery (aimis) , hystersisters, society of laparoendoscopic surgeons (sls), advocacy for people living with health issues related to hysterectomy, care about fibroids , healthywomen, hers foundation, hystersister, pass the pearls, our favorite surgery recovery tips and ‘after hysterectomy’ resources, dana-farber cancer institute, videos of hysterectomy and other surgeries, hysterectomy and related conditions: books and articles, clinical trials for health conditions related to hysterectomy, clinicaltrials.gov, learn more about hysterectomy information and resources, learn more about what your doctor won’t tell you about hysterectomy, references, sources][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, total hysterectomy this is the removal of the entire uterus, including the cervix (the lower narrower portion of the uterus)., supracervical (also known as a subtotal or partial) hysterectomy this is the removal of the upper part of the uterus. the cervix is left in place., radical hysterectomy this is a total hysterectomy that also involves removing surrounding tissues around the uterus, called the parametrium. this procedure is usually reserved for cases where cancer is present. (6), blood clots, infection, excessive bleeding, adverse reaction to anesthesia, damage to the urinary tract, rectum, or other pelvic structures, “when looking at doctor’s profiles on hospital web pages, you can often find their areas of expertise and interest. seeing the phrases 'minimally invasive surgery,' 'vaginal surgery,' or 'robotic-assisted laparoscopy' are a good sign,” says kate white, md, mph, an assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at boston university in massachusetts., “hers maintains a list of doctors who at least 25 women have reported having had good surgical outcomes with. if you don’t find one in your area, i suggest you google your nearest medical school. then find the obstetrics and gynecology department and search for faculty members. bios can tell you the member’s specialty, and they may also include statements about the doctor’s philosophy, along with the location of their clinical practice and phone number,” says nora w. coffey, co-author of the h word: the diagnostic studies to evaluate symptoms, alternatives in treatment, and coping with the aftereffects of hysterectomy., ultrasound surgery — healing without cuts this insightful ted talk explores how focused ultrasound can find and treat uterine fibroids along with other growths and lesions., surgeryu, the ‘madness’ of unnecessary hysterectomy has to stop while some 10 percent of hysterectomies are performed to treat cancers of the ovaries, uterus, or cervix, the majority are considered “elective” (such as those performed in the treatment of endometriosis or fibroids after other therapies or treatments haven’t been successful in alleviating symptoms). if you are in the “thinking about it” stage, you may want to read this guest post on the lown institute blog. the anonymous author describes having a hysterectomy and being “overly treated and permanently harmed” by her gynecologist. for sure, it’s an interesting read and something to think about as you consider treatment options., in her own words: lena dunham on her decision to have a hysterectomy at 31 in this essay published in march 2018 in vogue, actress, writer, and director lena dunham reflects on her decade-long struggle with endometriosis, which ultimately led her to choose hysterectomy for what she describes as a “defective” uterus., padma lakshmi: 'i was being penalized because i have a uterus.' (woerner m.) in this article published in april 2018 in variety (with accompanying video), the top chef host and cofounder of the endometriosis foundation of america describes a 20-year struggle that finally led to her endometriosis diagnosis at age 36., gabrielle union on her adenomyosis diagnosis: ‘i finally got some answers.' (pasquini m.) actress gabrielle union opens up about her fertility struggles and recent adenomyosis diagnosis in this article, published august 13, 2018, in people., should you have a hysterectomy? how to decide download this new york state department of health brochure to access information on such topics as the benefits and risks of hysterectomy, getting a second opinion, and recovery. the booklet also includes a list of questions to ask your doctor as you consider the surgery., the essential guide to hysterectomy (lauren f. streicher, md) this invaluable source of advice and information guides you through all aspects of hysterectomy, with chapters covering decisions regarding surgery, alternative procedures, and life after surgery (including sex and pregnancy concerns)., gynecological anatomy (johns hopkins medicine) not quite sure where your ovaries are located or exactly where your uterus lies in your body? you’re not alone, and here you’ll find a simple, helpful graphic that will explain it all., hysterectomy (national women’s health network) you’ll find an excellent overview of hysterectomy here. topics covered include surgical options, surgical and post-surgical risks, and hysterectomy alternatives., minimally invasive gynecologic surgery (mayo clinic) check out this quick synopsis of current innovative treatment options., gynecological anatomy. johns hopkins medicine., female reproductive system. cleveland clinic., hysterectomy. national women’s health network., wright jd, herzog tj, tsui j, et al. nationwide trends in the performance of inpatient hysterectomy in the united states. obstetrics & gynecology. august 2013., whiteman mk, hillis sd, jamieson dj, et al. inpatient hysterectomy surveillance in the united states, 2000-2004. american journal of obstetrics & gynecology. january 2008., hysterectomy. the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists. march 2015., oophorectomy (ovary removal surgery). mayo clinic. april 7, 2017., carter je. alternatives to total abdominal hysterectomy. journal of the society of laparoendoscopic surgeons. july–september 1997., minimally invasive surgery. mayo clinic. december 30, 2017., uterine fibroids. national institutes of health. june 30, 2018., uterine fibroids. mayo clinic. march 6, 2018., facts about endometriosis. endometriosis.org. may 27, 2017., endometriosis. mayo clinic. july 24, 2018., endometriosis: should i have a hysterectomy and oophorectomy? michigan medicine. october 6, 2017., what to do about pelvic organ prolapse. harvard health publishing. july 13, 2018., abnormal uterine bleeding. the american college of obstetricians and gynecologists. march 2017., speer lm, mushkbar s, erbele t. chronic pelvic pain in women. american family physician. march 1, 2016., adenomyosis. mayo clinic. june 8, 2018., hysterectomy. johns hopkins medicine., surgery for endometrial cancer. american cancer society. november 20, 2017., can ovarian cancer be found early? american cancer society. april 11, 2018., abdominal hysterectomy. mayo clinic. january 31, 2018., recovering from your hysterectomy. dana-farber cancer institute., hysterectomy. cleveland clinic. june 25, 2018., hysterectomy. healthywomen., hysterectomy. office on women’s health. may 22, 2018., abdominal hysterectomy. uptodate. may 30, 2018., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]