[you may have access to the free features available through my research. you can save searches, save documents, create alerts and more. please log in through your library or institution to check if you have access., if you log in through your library or institution you might have access to this article in multiple languages., styles include mla, apa, chicago and many more. this feature may be available for free if you log in through your library or institution., you may have access to it for free by logging in through your library or institution., , , you may have access to different export options including google drive and microsoft onedrive and citation management tools like refworks and easybib. try logging in through your library or institution to get access to these tools., please select one or more items., you might have access to the full article..., try and log in through your institution to see if they have access to the full text., translate, weihong peng: weihong peng is a phd student at the graduate school of library and information science, university of illinois at urbana-champaign, illinois, usa., jennifer cisna: jennifer cisna is the community services librarian for the bensenville community public library, chicago, illinois, usa., acknowledgment: we wish to thank professor martha williams for her great efforts in advising us and editing this article. received march 2000 accepted april 2000, introduction, the emerging technology of cookies has penetrated into a huge number of web sites at an astonishing speed. cookies contribute a great deal to a user-friendly network paradigm: designed to maintain state in a stateless environment (html), cookies can allow a website to track a user as the web site is viewed. on the other hand, the placement of cookies on a client-side computer is a cause for concern. we discuss both sides of the technology in this paper., what are cookies?, definition, peters and sikorski (1997) offer a clear definition of a cookie: "cookies are small data structures sent from a web server to your browser and saved on your hard drive in a text file. they are nothing more than a string of characters (letters and numbers) that store certain pieces of information about you." cookies are placed on the hard drive of a website user without the user's consent to the placement. in fact, many users are unaware that cookies have been stored on their hard drives by the web server., the information that the cookie stores is usually related to browser usage such as passwords or information filled out in a form. when a user accesses a web site with a cookie function for the first time, a cookie is sent from server to the browser and stored with the browser in the local computer. with additional information about the state of the user side, the cookie is sent back to the server. later, when the user accesses the web pages of the same server with the same browser from the same computer (all three conditions are necessary), he will always be recognised because of the matching cookie. to make it easier to understand, a cookie is much like a laundry "claim-check" - you drop something off and get a ticket, then..., show less, you have requested "on-the-fly" machine translation of selected content from our databases. this functionality is provided solely for your convenience and is in no way intended to replace human translation. show full disclaimer, neither proquest nor its licensors make any representations or warranties with respect to the translations. the translations are automatically generated "as is" and "as available" and are not retained in our systems. proquest and its licensors specifically disclaim any and all express or implied warranties, including without limitation, any warranties for availability, accuracy, timeliness, completeness, non-infringment, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. your use of the translations is subject to all use restrictions contained in your electronic products license agreement and by using the translation functionality you agree to forgo any and all claims against proquest or its licensors for your use of the translation functionality and any output derived there from. hide full disclaimer][select language, welcome to my research!, translate this article into 20 different languages!, get access to 20+ different citations styles, looking for a pdf of this document?, copy link, want to save this document?, http cookies - a promising technology, no items selected, content area, full text]http cookies - a promising technology - proquest[log in through your library, online information review, ; bradford][my research and language selectionmy research  sign into my research  create my research account english,  sign into my research,  create my research account, , english, help and supporthelp and support support centerfind answers to questions about products, access, use, setup, and administration. contact ushave a question, idea, or some feedback? we want to hear from you. product trialsrequest a free product trial., support centerfind answers to questions about products, access, use, setup, and administration., , contact ushave a question, idea, or some feedback? we want to hear from you., , product trialsrequest a free product trial., , , about proquest company website about dissertations contact us careers international websites 日本語 中文(简体) 한국어 português deutsch français türkçe italiano español español (españa), company website, about dissertations, contact us, careers, international websites 日本語 中文(简体) 한국어 português deutsch français türkçe italiano español español (españa), 日本語, 中文(简体), 한국어, português, deutsch, français, türkçe, italiano, español, español (españa), , support center, , all products, , my research and language selection  sign into my research  create my research account english,  sign into my research,  create my research account, , english, help and support support centerfind answers to questions about products, access, use, setup, and administration. contact ushave a question, idea, or some feedback? we want to hear from you. product trialsrequest a free product trial., support centerfind answers to questions about products, access, use, setup, and administration., , contact ushave a question, idea, or some feedback? we want to hear from you., , product trialsrequest a free product trial., , , العربية, bahasa indonesia, čeština, deutsch, español, français, 한국어, italiano, magyar, 日本語, norsk, polski, português (brasil), português (portugal), русский, ไทย, türkçe, 中文(简体)‎, 中文(繁體)‎, more like this, preview available, , scholarly journal, about proquest, contact us, terms of use, privacy policy, cookie policy, , sitemap]