[the american cancer society is here to support ukrainian patients with cancer, caregivers, and clinicians., whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here., you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early., whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home., our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research., what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life., we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better., prod, , a risk factor is anything that increases your chance of getting a disease like cancer. different cancers have different risk factors. some risk factors, like smoking, can be changed. others, like a person’s age or family history, can’t be changed., but having a risk factor, or even many, does not mean that you will get the disease. and some people who get the disease may not have any known risk factors. researchers have discovered several risk factors that might increase a woman's chance of developing epithelial ovarian cancer. these risk factors don’t apply to other less common types of ovarian cancer like germ cell tumors and stromal tumors., the risk of developing ovarian cancer gets higher with age. ovarian cancer is rare in women younger than 40. most ovarian cancers develop after menopause. half of all ovarian cancers are found in women 63 years of age or older., obesity has been linked to a higher risk of developing many cancers. the current information available for ovarian cancer risk and obesity is not clear. obese women (those with a body mass index [bmi] of at least 30) probably have a higher risk of developing ovarian cancer, but not necessarily the most aggressive types, such as high-grade serous cancers. obesity may also negatively affect the overall survival of a woman with ovarian cancer., women who have their first full-term pregnancy after age 35 or who never carried a pregnancy to term have a higher risk of ovarian cancer., , women using estrogens alone or with progesterone after menopause have an increased risk of developing ovarian cancer compared to women who have never used hormones., ovarian cancer can run in families. your ovarian cancer risk is increased if your mother, sister, or daughter has (or has had) ovarian cancer. the risk also gets higher the more relatives you have with ovarian cancer. increased risk for ovarian cancer can also come from your father's side., a family history of some other types of cancer such as colorectal and breast cancer is linked to an increased risk of ovarian cancer. this is because these cancers can be caused by an inherited mutation (change) in certain genes that cause a family cancer syndrome that increases the risk of ovarian cancer., up to 25% of ovarian cancers are a part of family cancer syndromes resulting from inherited changes (mutations) in certain genes., this syndrome is caused by inherited mutations in the genes brca1 and brca2, as well as possibly some other genes that have not yet been found. this syndrome is linked to a high risk of breast cancer as well as ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancers. the risk of some other cancers, such as pancreatic cancer and prostate cancer, are also increased., mutations in brca1 and brca2 are also responsible for most inherited ovarian cancers. mutations in brca1 and brca2 are about 10 times more common in those who are ashkenazi jewish than those in the general u.s. population., the lifetime ovarian cancer risk for women with a brca1 mutation is estimated to be between 35% and 70%. this means that if 100 women had a brca1 mutation, between 35 and 70 of them would get ovarian cancer. for women with brca2 mutations the risk has been estimated to be between 10% and 30% by age 70. these mutations also increase the risks for primary peritoneal carcinoma and fallopian tube carcinoma., in comparison, the ovarian cancer lifetime risk for the women in the general population is less than 2%., women with this syndrome have a very high risk of colon cancer and also have an increased risk of developing cancer of the uterus (endometrial cancer) and ovarian cancer. many different genes can cause this syndrome. they include mlh1, msh2, msh6, pms2, and epcam. the lifetime risk of ovarian cancer in women with hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer is about 10%. up to 1% of all ovarian epithelial cancers occur in women with this syndrome. another name for hnpcc is lynch syndrome., people with this rare genetic syndrome develop polyps in the stomach and intestine while they are teenagers. they also have a high risk of cancer, particularly cancers of the digestive tract (esophagus, stomach, small intestine, colon). women with this syndrome have an increased risk of ovarian cancer, including both epithelial ovarian cancer and a type of stromal tumor called sex cord tumor with annular tubules (sctat). this syndrome is caused by mutations in the gene stk11., people with this syndrome develop polyps in the colon and small intestine and have a high risk of colon cancer. they are also more likely to develop other cancers, including cancers of the ovary and bladder. this syndrome is caused by mutations in the gene mutyh., besides the gene mutations mentioned above, there are other genes linked to ovarian cancer. these include atm, brip1, rad51c, rad51d, and palb2. some of these genes are also associated with cancers such as breast and pancreas., fertility treatment with in vitro fertilization (ivf) seems to increase the risk of the type of ovarian tumors known as "borderline" or "low malignant potential" (described in what is ovarian cancer?). other studies, however, have not shown an increased risk of invasive ovarian cancer with fertility drugs. if you are taking fertility drugs, you should discuss the potential risks with your doctor., if you have had breast cancer, you might also have an increased risk of developing ovarian cancer. there are several reasons for this. some of the reproductive risk factors for ovarian cancer may also affect breast cancer risk. the risk of ovarian cancer after breast cancer is highest in those women with a family history of breast cancer. a strong family history of breast cancer may be caused by an inherited mutation in the brca1 or brca2 genes and hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, which is linked to an increased risk of ovarian cancer., smoking doesn’t increase the risk of ovarian cancer overall, but it is linked to an increased risk for the mucinous type., androgens, such as testosterone, are male hormones. there appears to be a link between certain androgens and specific types of ovarian cancer, but further studies of the role of androgens in ovarian cancer are needed., it has been suggested that talcum powder might cause cancer in the ovaries if the powder particles (applied to the genital area or on sanitary napkins, diaphragms, or condoms) were to travel through the vagina, uterus, and fallopian tubes to the ovary., many studies in women have looked at the possible link between talcum powder and cancer of the ovary. findings have been mixed, with some studies reporting a slightly increased risk and some reporting no increase. many case-control studies have found a small increase in risk. but these types of studies can be biased because they often rely on a person’s memory of talc use many years earlier.  one prospective cohort study, which would not have the same type of potential bias, has not found an increased risk. a second found a modest increase in risk of one type of ovarian cancer., for any individual woman, if there is an increased risk, the overall increase is likely to very be small. still, talc is widely used in many products, so it is important to determine if the increased risk is real. research in this area continues., some studies have shown a reduced rate of ovarian cancer in women who ate a diet high in vegetables or a low fat diet, but other studies disagree. the american cancer society recommends following a healthy eating pattern that includes plenty of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, and that limits or avoids red and processed meats, sugary drinks, and highly processed foods. even though the effect of these dietary recommendations on ovarian cancer risk remains uncertain, following them can help prevent several other diseases, including some other types of cancer., women who have been pregnant and carried it to term before age 26 have a lower risk of ovarian cancer than women who have not. the risk goes down with each full-term pregnancy. breastfeeding may lower the risk even further., women who have used oral contraceptives (also known as birth control pills or the pill) have a lower risk of ovarian cancer. the risk is lower the longer the pills are used. this lower risk continues for many years after the pill is stopped. other forms of birth control such as tubal ligation (having fallopian tubes tied) and short use of iuds (intrauterine devices) have also been associated with a lower risk of ovarian cancer., a hysterectomy (removing the uterus without removing the ovaries) also seems to reduce the risk of getting ovarian cancer by about one-third., , the american cancer society medical and editorial content team, our team is made up of doctors and oncology certified nurses with deep knowledge of cancer care as well as journalists, editors, and translators with extensive experience in medical writing., american cancer society. cancer facts & figures 2020. atlanta. american cancer society; 2020. , berge w, mundt k, luu h, et al. genital use of talc and risk of ovarian cancer: a meta analysis. eur j cancer prev. 2017; jul 07. pmid: 28079603., brinton la, trabert b, shalev v, lunenfeld e, sella t, chodick g. in vitro fertilization and risk of breast and gynecologic cancers: a retrospective cohort study within the israeli maccabi healthcare services. fertil steril. 2013;99(5):1189-1196. doi:10.1016/j.fertnstert.2012.12.029., cibula d, zikan m, dusek l, majek o. oral contraceptives and risk of ovarian and breast cancers in brca mutation carriers: a meta-analysis. expert rev anticancer ther. 2011;11(8):1197-1207., collaborative group on epidemiological studies of ovarian cancer, beral v, gaitskell k, hermon c, moser k, reeves g, peto r. ovarian cancer and smoking: individual participant meta-analysis including 28,114 women with ovarian cancer from 51 epidemiological studies. lancet oncol. 2012;13(9):946-956. epub 2012 aug 3., coleman rl, liu j, matsuo k, thaker ph, weston sn, and sood ak. chapter 86: carcinoma of the ovaries and fallopian tubes. in: niederhuber je, armitage jo, doroshow jh, kastan mb, tepper je, eds. abeloff’s clinical oncology. 6th ed. philadelphia, pa. elsevier: 2020., cook ls, kamb ml, weiss ns. perineal powder exposure and the risk of ovarian cancer. am j epidemiol.1997;145:459−465., cottreau cm, ness rb, modugno f, allen go, goodman mt. endometriosis and its treatment with danazol or lupron in relation to ovarian cancer. clin cancer res. 2003;9:5142-5144., cramer dw, vitonis af, terry kl, et al. the association between talc use and ovarian cancer: a retrospective case control study in two us states. epidemiology. 2016;27:334-46, diergaarde b, kurta ml. use of fertility drugs and risk of ovarian cancer. curr opin obstet gynecol. 2014;26(3):125-129. doi:10.1097/gco.0000000000000060., gertig dm, hunter dj, cramer dw, et al. prospective study of talc use and ovarian cancer. j natl cancer inst. 2000;92:249−252., hemminki k, zhang h, sundquist j, lorenzo bermejo j. modification of risk for subsequent cancer after female breast cancer by a family history of breast cancer. breast cancer res treat. 2008 ;111:165-169., houghton sc, reeves kw, hankinson se, et al. perineal powder use and risk of ovarian cancer. j natl cancer inst. 2014 sep 10;106(9)., konstantinopoulos pa, norquist b, lacchetti c, armstrong d, grisham rn, goodfellow pj, et al. germline and somatic tumor testing in epithelial ovarian cancer: asco guideline. j clin oncol. 2020. doi: 10.1200/jco.19.02960. [epub ahead of print]., kurta ml, moysich kb, weissfeld jl, et al. use of fertility drugs and risk of ovarian cancer: results from a us-based case-control study. cancer epidemiology, biomarkers & prevention : a publication of the american association for cancer research, cosponsored by the american society of preventive oncology. 2012;21(8):1282-1292. doi:10.1158/1055-9965.epi-12-0426., mclaughlin jr, et al; hereditary ovarian cancer clinical study group. reproductive risk factors for ovarian cancer in carriers of brca1 or brca2 mutations: a case-control study. lancet oncol. 2007; 8:26-34., mills pk, riordan dg, cress rd, young ha. perineal talc exposure and epithelial ovarian cancer risk in the central valley of california. int j cancer. 2004;112:458−464., nagle cm, dixon sc, jensen a, et al. obesity and survival among women with ovarian cancer: results from the ovarian cancer association consortium. british journal of cancer. 2015;113(5):817-826. doi:10.1038/bjc.2015.245., national comprehensive cancer network (nccn)—genetic/familial high-risk assessment: breast, ovarian, and pancreatic. v1.2020. accessed march 26, 2020 from https://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/genetics_bop.pdf, national comprehensive cancer network (nccn)--ovarian cancer including fallopian tube cancer and primary peritoneal cancer. v2.2018. accessed february 5, 2018, from https://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/ovarian.pdf, olsen cm, green ac, nagle cm, et al.; australian cancer study group (ovarian cancer) and the australian ovarian cancer study group. epithelial ovarian cancer: testing the 'androgens hypothesis'. endocr relat cancer. 2008;15:1061-1068., olsen cm, green ac, whiteman dc, sadeghi s, kolahdooz f, webb pm. obesity and the risk of epithelial ovarian cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis. eur j cancer. 2007;43:690-709., oral contraceptive use and the risk of ovarian cancer. the centers for disease control cancer and steroid hormone study. jama. 1983;249(12):1596-1599., prentice rl, thomson ca, caan b, et al. low-fat dietary pattern and cancer incidence in the women’s health initiative dietary modification randomized controlled trial. j natl cancer inst. 2007;99(20):1534-1543. epub 2007 oct 9., rock cl, thomson c, gansler t, et al. american cancer society guideline for diet and physical activity for cancer prevention. ca: a cancer journal for clinicians. 2020;70(4). doi:10.3322/caac.21591. accessed at https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.3322/caac.21591 on june 9, 2020., rosenblatt ka, weiss ns, cushing-haugen kl, wicklund kg, rossing ma. genital powder exposure and the risk of epithelial ovarian cancer. cancer causes control. 2011;22:737−742., stewart lm, holman cd, aboagye-sarfo p, finn jc, preen db, hart r. in vitro fertilization, endometriosis, nulliparity and ovarian cancer risk. gynecol oncol. 2013 feb;128(2):260-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2012.10.023. epub 2012 oct 29., stewart lm, holman cd, finn jc, preen db, hart r. in vitro fertilization is associated with an increased risk of borderline ovarian tumours. gynecol oncol. 129 (2013) 372–376., terry kl, karageorgi s, shvetsov yb, et al. genital powder use and risk of ovarian cancer: a pooled analysis of 8,525 cases and 9,859 controls. cancer prev res (phila). 2013;6:811–821., tewari ks, penson rt, monk bj. ch 77 - ovarian cancer. in: devita vt, hellman s, rosenberg sa, eds. cancer: principles and practice of oncology. 11th ed. philadelphia, pa: lippincott williams & wilkins; 2019., the reduction in risk of ovarian cancer associated with oral-contraceptive use. the cancer and steroid hormone study of the centers for disease control and the national institute of child health and human development. n engl j med. 1987;316(11):650-655., vogt s, jones n, christian d, et al. expanded extracolonic tumor spectrum in mutyh-associated polyposis. gastroenterology. 2009 dec;137(6):1976-1985.e1-10. epub 2009 sep 2., last revised: january 26, 2021, american cancer society medical information is copyrighted material. for reprint requests, please see our content usage policy., imagine a world free from cancer. help make it a reality., donate, cancer information, answers, and hope. available every minute of every day., © 2022 american cancer society, inc. all rights reserved. the american cancer society is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. tax id number: 13-1788491. cancer.org is provided courtesy of the leo and gloria rosen family.][more topics, insights and inspiration, featured resources, related topics, featured resources, navigating treatment, top story, more cancer news, top story, life-saving research, interactive & multimedia, more ways to get involved, our passion, partners spotlight, partners against cancer, partners spotlight, get to know us, making a difference, causes, risk factors, and prevention, ovarian cancer risk factors, factors that increase your risk of ovarian cancers, getting older, being overweight or obese, having children later or never having a full-term pregnancy, taking hormone therapy after menopause, having a family history of ovarian cancer, breast cancer, or colorectal cancer, having a family cancer syndrome, using fertility treatment, having had breast cancer, smoking, factors with unclear effects on ovarian cancer risk, androgens, talcum powder, diet, factors that can lower risk of ovarian cancer, pregnancy and breastfeeding, birth control, causes, risk factors, and prevention, more in ovarian cancer, 800.227.2345]ovarian cancer risk factors[epithelial, sex cord tumor with annular tubules, birth control pills, the pill, imagine a world free from cancer., , ][español, more languages, cancer a-z whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here. explore cancer a-z breast cancer colon and rectal cancer lung cancer prostate cancer skin cancer all cancer types more topics cancer basics what causes cancer? cancer glossary insights and inspiration cancer news stories of hope acs bookstore for professionals, explore cancer a-z, breast cancer, colon and rectal cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, skin cancer, all cancer types, cancer basics, what causes cancer?, cancer glossary, cancer news, stories of hope, acs bookstore, for professionals, stay healthy you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early. explore stay healthy find cancer early stay away from tobacco eat healthy & get active be safe in the sun protect against hpv cancer facts featured resources screening guidelines by age sun safety videos nutrition & activity quiz bmi calculator videos, quizzes, & calculators healthy recipes related topics learn about carcinogens genetics & cancer alcohol use & cancer signs & symptoms of cancer cancer prevention news, explore stay healthy, find cancer early, stay away from tobacco, eat healthy & get active, be safe in the sun, protect against hpv, cancer facts, screening guidelines by age, sun safety videos, nutrition & activity quiz, bmi calculator, videos, quizzes, & calculators, healthy recipes, learn about carcinogens, genetics & cancer, alcohol use & cancer, signs & symptoms of cancer, cancer prevention news, treatment & support whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home. explore treatment & support understanding your diagnosis treatment & side effects survivorship financial & insurance matters children & cancer for caregivers & family nearing the end of life featured resources patient programs and services clinical trials when natural disasters strike choosing your treatment team understanding recurrence navigating treatment personal health manager caregiver resource guide treatment videos survivorship care plans, explore treatment & support, understanding your diagnosis, treatment & side effects, survivorship, financial & insurance matters, children & cancer, for caregivers & family, nearing the end of life, patient programs and services, clinical trials, when natural disasters strike, choosing your treatment team, understanding recurrence, personal health manager, caregiver resource guide, treatment videos, survivorship care plans, news top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research. explore news latest news cancer updates living well acs research stories of hope more cancer news cancer facts and statistics research highlights acs press room top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak, explore news, latest news, cancer updates, living well, acs research, stories of hope, cancer facts and statistics, research highlights, acs press room, our research what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life. explore our research acs research highlights acs research news cancer facts & figures cps-3: cancer prevention study-3 currently funded cancer research apply for a grant life-saving research research we fund surveillance & health equity science population science our research team interactive & multimedia cancer statistics center tobacco atlas cancer atlas acs research podcasts, explore our research, acs research highlights, acs research news, cancer facts & figures, cps-3: cancer prevention study-3, currently funded cancer research, apply for a grant, research we fund, surveillance & health equity science, population science, our research team, cancer statistics center, tobacco atlas, cancer atlas, acs research podcasts, get involved we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives. explore get involved volunteer donate fundraise sign up for email more ways to get involved plan a gift shop to save lives celebrate a loved one be an advocate our passion volunteer to help acs in your community cancer news more ways to give, explore get involved, volunteer, donate, fundraise, sign up for email, plan a gift, shop to save lives, celebrate a loved one, be an advocate, volunteer to help, acs in your community, cancer news, more ways to give, our partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer. explore our partners become a partner partner promotions employee engagement partners against cancer corporate partners ceo's against cancer sports alliances brand ambassadors community partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, explore our partners, become a partner, partner promotions, employee engagement, corporate partners, ceo's against cancer, sports alliances, brand ambassadors, community partners, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, about us at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better. explore about us who we are what we do where we help sign up for email get to know us our history global cancer programs financials & governance multicultural communities making a difference careers at acs our leadership acs news room, explore about us, who we are, what we do, where we help, sign up for email, our history, global cancer programs, financials & governance, multicultural communities, careers at acs, our leadership, acs news room, ovarian cancer risk factors, what causes ovarian cancer?, can ovarian cancer be prevented?, cancer a-z, ovarian cancer, causes, risk factors, and prevention, written by, references, ovarian cancer risk factors, what causes ovarian cancer?, can ovarian cancer be prevented?, about ovarian cancer, causes, risk factors, and prevention, early detection, diagnosis, and staging, treatment, after treatment, cancer prevention & detection, cancer basics, signs & symptoms of cancer, treatments & side effects, acs research highlights, cancer facts & statistics, news and stories, glossary, for health care professionals, lodging during treatment, rides to treatment, breast cancer support, hair loss and mastectomy products, connecting cancer survivors, making strides against breast cancer walks, relay for life events, american cancer society on campus, coaches vs. cancer, galas, balls & parties, ways to give, memorial giving, planned giving, philanthropy, donate a car, contact us, local offices, employment, information for suppliers, report fraud or abuse, sign up for email, our research, cancer action network, global health, policies, our volunteers, bookstore, cancer atlas, cancer statistics center, acs news room, volunteer community, help, site map, privacy policy, accessibility, terms of use, state fundraising notices, site comments]