[sets or gets the string value of a cookie., syntax, possible values, the property is read/write. the property has no default value., expressions can be used in place of the preceding value(s), as of microsoft® internet explorer 5. for more information, see about dynamic properties., remarks, a cookie is a small piece of information stored by the browser. each cookie is stored in a name=value pair called a crumb—that is, if the cookie name is "id" and you want to save the id value as "this," the cookie is saved as id=this. you can store up to a maxium of 50 name=value pairs in a cookie; the cookie is always returned as a string of all the cookies that apply to the page. this means that you must parse the string returned to find the values of individual cookies., cookies accumulate each time the property is set. once the maxium pair limit is reached, subsequent set will push older name=value pair off in favor of the new name=value pair., you can use the microsoft jscript split method to extract a value stored in a cookie., examples, this example creates a cookie with a specified name and value. the value is passed to the jscript escape function to ensure that the value contains only valid characters. when you get the cookie, use the jscript unescape function to translate the value back to its original form., this example gets the value of the portion of the cookie specified by the scookie parameter., this example deletes a cookie by setting its expires attribute to a past date. a cookie deleted in this manner might not be removed immediately by the browser., standards information, this property is defined in world wide web consortium (w3c) document object model (dom) level 1 ., applies to, see also, experience silverlight enabled quickstart tutorials, video training, showcases & more., by clicking "click to install" you accept the silverlight license agreement . silverlight updates automatically, learn more .][microsoft developer network]cookie property (document)[mar, dec, 2007, 2009,  cookie property][msdn library]