[the american cancer society is here to support ukrainian patients with cancer, caregivers, and clinicians., whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here., you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early., whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home., our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research., what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life., we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better., prod, if you’ve been diagnosed with ovarian cancer, your cancer care team will discuss your treatment options with you. it’s important that you think carefully about each of your choices. weigh the benefits of each treatment option against the possible risks and side effects., some treatments are local, meaning they treat the tumor without affecting the rest of the body., types of local therapy used for ovarian cancer include:, drugs used to treat ovarian cancer are considered systemic therapies because they can reach cancer cells almost anywhere in the body. they can be given by mouth or put directly into the bloodstream., depending on the type of ovarian cancer, different types of drug treatment might be used, including:, typically, treatment plans are based on the type of ovarian cancer, its stage, and any special situations. most women with ovarian cancer will have some type of surgery to remove the tumor. depending on the type of ovarian cancer and how advanced it is, you might need other types of treatment as well, either before or after surgery, or sometimes both., based on your treatment options, you might have different types of doctors on your treatment team. these doctors could include:, many other specialists might be part of your treatment team as well, including physician assistants, nurse practitioners, nurses, psychologists, sex counselors, social workers, nutritionists, genetic counselors, and other health professionals. , your treatment plan will depend on many factors, including your overall health, personal preferences, and whether you plan to have children. age alone isn’t a determining factor since several studies have shown that older women tolerate ovarian cancer treatments well. , it’s important to discuss all of your treatment options, including their goals and possible side effects, with your doctors to help make the decision that best fits your needs. it’s also very important to ask questions if there's anything you’re not sure about. , if time permits, it is often a good idea to seek a second opinion. a second opinion can give you more information and help you feel more confident about the treatment plan you choose., clinical trials are carefully controlled research studies that are done to get a closer look at promising new treatments or procedures. clinical trials are one way to get state-of-the art cancer treatment. in some cases they may be the only way to get access to newer treatments. they are also the best way for doctors to learn better methods to treat cancer. still, they're not right for everyone., if you would like to learn more about clinical trials that might be right for you, start by asking your doctor if your clinic or hospital conducts clinical trials. , you may hear about alternative or complementary methods that your doctor hasn’t mentioned to treat your cancer or relieve symptoms. these methods can include vitamins, herbs, and special diets, or other methods such as acupuncture or massage, to name a few., complementary methods refer to treatments that are used along with your regular medical care. alternative treatments are used instead of a doctor’s medical treatment. although some of these methods might be helpful in relieving symptoms or helping you feel better, many have not been proven to work. some might even be harmful., be sure to talk to your cancer care team about any method you are thinking about using. they can help you learn what is known (or not known) about the method, which can help you make an informed decision. , people with cancer need support and information, no matter what stage of illness they may be in. knowing all of your options and finding the resources you need will help you make informed decisions about your care. , whether you are thinking about treatment, getting treatment, or not being treated at all,  you can still get supportive care to help with pain or other symptoms. communicating with your cancer care team is important so you understand your diagnosis, what treatment is recommended, and ways to maintain or improve your quality of life.  , different types of programs and support services may be helpful, and can be an important part of your care. these might include nursing or social work services, financial aid, nutritional advice, rehab, or spiritual help., the american cancer society also has programs and services – including rides to treatment, lodging, and more – to help you get through treatment. call our national cancer information center at 1-800-227-2345 and speak with one of our trained specialists., for some people, when treatments have been tried and are no longer controlling the cancer, it could be time to weigh the benefits and risks of continuing to try new treatments. whether or not you continue treatment, there are still things you can do to help maintain or improve your quality of life., some people, especially if the cancer is advanced, might not want to be treated at all. there are many reasons you might decide not to get cancer treatment, but it’s important to talk to your doctors and you make that decision. remember that even if you choose not to treat the cancer, you can still get supportive care to help with pain or other symptoms., the treatment information given here is not official policy of the american cancer society and is not intended as medical advice to replace the expertise and judgment of your cancer care team. it is intended to help you and your family make informed decisions, together with your doctor. your doctor may have reasons for suggesting a treatment plan different from these general treatment options. don't hesitate to ask your cancer care team any questions you may have about your treatment options., imagine a world free from cancer. help make it a reality., donate, cancer information, answers, and hope. available every minute of every day., © 2022 american cancer society, inc. all rights reserved. the american cancer society is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. tax id number: 13-1788491. cancer.org is provided courtesy of the leo and gloria rosen family.][more topics, insights and inspiration, featured resources, related topics, featured resources, navigating treatment, top story, more cancer news, top story, life-saving research, interactive & multimedia, more ways to get involved, our passion, partners spotlight, partners against cancer, partners spotlight, get to know us, making a difference, treating ovarian cancer, local treatments, systemic treatments, common approaches, who treats ovarian cancer?, making treatment decisions, thinking about taking part in a clinical trial, considering complementary and alternative methods, help getting through cancer treatment, choosing to stop treatment or choosing no treatment at all, more in ovarian cancer, 800.227.2345]ovarian cancer treatment | how to treat ovarian cancer[imagine a world free from cancer., , ][español, more languages, cancer a-z whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here. explore cancer a-z breast cancer colon and rectal cancer lung cancer prostate cancer skin cancer all cancer types more topics cancer basics what causes cancer? cancer glossary insights and inspiration cancer news stories of hope acs bookstore for professionals, explore cancer a-z, breast cancer, colon and rectal cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, skin cancer, all cancer types, cancer basics, what causes cancer?, cancer glossary, cancer news, stories of hope, acs bookstore, for professionals, stay healthy you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early. explore stay healthy find cancer early stay away from tobacco eat healthy & get active be safe in the sun protect against hpv cancer facts featured resources screening guidelines by age sun safety videos nutrition & activity quiz bmi calculator videos, quizzes, & calculators healthy recipes related topics learn about carcinogens genetics & cancer alcohol use & cancer signs & symptoms of cancer cancer prevention news, explore stay healthy, find cancer early, stay away from tobacco, eat healthy & get active, be safe in the sun, protect against hpv, cancer facts, screening guidelines by age, sun safety videos, nutrition & activity quiz, bmi calculator, videos, quizzes, & calculators, healthy recipes, learn about carcinogens, genetics & cancer, alcohol use & cancer, signs & symptoms of cancer, cancer prevention news, treatment & support whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home. explore treatment & support understanding your diagnosis treatment & side effects survivorship financial & insurance matters children & cancer for caregivers & family nearing the end of life featured resources patient programs and services clinical trials when natural disasters strike choosing your treatment team understanding recurrence navigating treatment personal health manager caregiver resource guide treatment videos survivorship care plans, explore treatment & support, understanding your diagnosis, treatment & side effects, survivorship, financial & insurance matters, children & cancer, for caregivers & family, nearing the end of life, patient programs and services, clinical trials, when natural disasters strike, choosing your treatment team, understanding recurrence, personal health manager, caregiver resource guide, treatment videos, survivorship care plans, news top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research. explore news latest news cancer updates living well acs research stories of hope more cancer news cancer facts and statistics research highlights acs press room top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak, explore news, latest news, cancer updates, living well, acs research, stories of hope, cancer facts and statistics, research highlights, acs press room, our research what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life. explore our research acs research highlights acs research news cancer facts & figures cps-3: cancer prevention study-3 currently funded cancer research apply for a grant life-saving research research we fund surveillance & health equity science population science our research team interactive & multimedia cancer statistics center tobacco atlas cancer atlas acs research podcasts, explore our research, acs research highlights, acs research news, cancer facts & figures, cps-3: cancer prevention study-3, currently funded cancer research, apply for a grant, research we fund, surveillance & health equity science, population science, our research team, cancer statistics center, tobacco atlas, cancer atlas, acs research podcasts, get involved we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives. explore get involved volunteer donate fundraise sign up for email more ways to get involved plan a gift shop to save lives celebrate a loved one be an advocate our passion volunteer to help acs in your community cancer news more ways to give, explore get involved, volunteer, donate, fundraise, sign up for email, plan a gift, shop to save lives, celebrate a loved one, be an advocate, volunteer to help, acs in your community, cancer news, more ways to give, our partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer. explore our partners become a partner partner promotions employee engagement partners against cancer corporate partners ceo's against cancer sports alliances brand ambassadors community partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, explore our partners, become a partner, partner promotions, employee engagement, corporate partners, ceo's against cancer, sports alliances, brand ambassadors, community partners, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, about us at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better. explore about us who we are what we do where we help sign up for email get to know us our history global cancer programs financials & governance multicultural communities making a difference careers at acs our leadership acs news room, explore about us, who we are, what we do, where we help, sign up for email, our history, global cancer programs, financials & governance, multicultural communities, careers at acs, our leadership, acs news room, cancer a-z, ovarian cancer, surgery for ovarian cancer, radiation therapy for ovarian cancer, chemotherapy for ovarian cancer, hormone therapy for ovarian cancer, targeted therapy for ovarian cancer, treatment of invasive epithelial ovarian cancers, by stage, treatment for epithelial tumors of low malignant potential, treatment for germ cell tumors of the ovary, treatment for stromal tumors of the ovary, by stage, a gynecologic oncologist: a gynecology doctor who is specially trained to use surgery to treat ovarian cancer; many times they are also the ones to give chemotherapy and other medicines to treat ovarian cancer, a radiation oncologist: a doctor who uses radiation to treat cancer, a medical oncologist: a doctor who uses chemotherapy and other medicines to treat cancer, health professionals associated with cancer care, what should you ask your doctor about ovarian cancer?, seeking a second opinion, clinical trials, complementary and integrative medicine, palliative care, find support programs and services in your area, if cancer treatments stop working, about ovarian cancer, causes, risk factors, and prevention, early detection, diagnosis, and staging, treatment, after treatment, cancer prevention & detection, cancer basics, signs & symptoms of cancer, treatments & side effects, acs research highlights, cancer facts & statistics, news and stories, glossary, for health care professionals, lodging during treatment, rides to treatment, breast cancer support, hair loss and mastectomy products, connecting cancer survivors, making strides against breast cancer walks, relay for life events, american cancer society on campus, coaches vs. cancer, galas, balls & parties, ways to give, memorial giving, planned giving, philanthropy, donate a car, contact us, local offices, employment, information for suppliers, report fraud or abuse, sign up for email, our research, cancer action network, global health, policies, our volunteers, bookstore, cancer atlas, cancer statistics center, acs news room, volunteer community, help, site map, privacy policy, accessibility, terms of use, state fundraising notices, site comments]