[estimated new cases in 2022 19,880, % of all new cancer cases 1.0%, estimated deaths in 2022 12,810, % of all cancer deaths 2.1%, 5-year relative survival, new cases come from seer 12. deaths come from u.s. mortality. all races, females. rates are age-adjusted. modeled trend lines were calculated from the underlying rates using the joinpoint trend analysis software., new cases are also referred to as incident cases in other publications. rates of new cases are also referred to as incidence rates., rate of new cases and deaths per 100,000: the rate of new cases of ovarian cancer was 10.6 per 100,000 women per year. the death rate was 6.5 per 100,000 women per year. these rates are age-adjusted and based on 2015–2019 cases and deaths., lifetime risk of developing cancer: approximately 1.1 percent of women will be diagnosed with ovarian cancer at some point during their lifetime, based on 2017–2019 data., prevalence of this cancer: in 2019, there were an estimated 233,565 women living with ovarian cancer in the united states., relative survival is an estimate of the percentage of patients who would be expected to survive the effects of their cancer. it excludes the risk of dying from other causes. because survival statistics are based on large groups of people, they cannot be used to predict exactly what will happen to an individual patient. no two patients are entirely alike, and treatment and responses to treatment can vary greatly., 5-year relative survival, based on data from seer 17 2012–2018. gray figures represent those who have died from ovarian cancer. green figures represent those who have survived 5 years or more., cancer stage at diagnosis, which refers to extent of a cancer in the body, determines treatment options and has a strong influence on the length of survival. in general, if the cancer is found only in the part of the body where it started it is localized (sometimes referred to as stage 1). if it has spread to a different part of the body, the stage is regional or distant. the earlier ovarian cancer is caught, the better chance a person has of surviving five years after being diagnosed. for ovarian cancer, 16.8% are diagnosed at the local stage. the 5-year relative survival for localized ovarian cancer is 93.1%., seer 17 2012–2018, all races, females by seer combined summary stage, compared to other cancers, ovarian cancer is relatively rare., ovarian cancer represents 1.0% of all new cancer cases in the u.s., 1.0%, in 2022, it is estimated that there will be 19,880 new cases of ovarian cancer and an estimated 12,810 people will die of this disease., ovarian cancer is rare. women with a family history of ovarian cancer have an increased risk for the disease. the rate of new cases of ovarian cancer was 10.6 per 100,000 women per year based on 2015–2019 cases, age-adjusted., seer 22 2015–2019, age-adjusted, ovarian cancer is most frequently diagnosed among women aged 55–64., median age at diagnosis, seer 22 2015–2019, all races, females, for ovarian cancer, death rates generally increase with age. ovarian cancer is the thirteenth leading cause of cancer death in the united states. the death rate was 6.5 per 100,000 women per year based on 2015–2019, age-adjusted., u.s. 2015–2019, age-adjusted, the percent of ovarian cancer deaths is highest among women aged 65–74., median age at death, u.s. 2015–2019, all races, females, keeping track of new cases, deaths, and survival over time (trends) can help scientists understand whether progress is being made and where additional research is needed to address challenges, such as improving screening or finding better treatments., using statistical models for analysis, age-adjusted rates for new ovarian cancer cases have been falling on average 3.3% each year over 2010–2019. age-adjusted death rates have been falling on average 2.7% each year over 2010–2019. 5-year relative survival trends are shown below., new cases come from seer 8. deaths come from u.s. mortality. all races, females. rates are age-adjusted. modeled trend lines were calculated from the underlying rates using the joinpoint trend analysis software., seer 8 5-year relative survival percent from 1975–2014, all races, females. modeled trend lines were calculated from the underlying rates using the joinpoint survival model software., seer*explorer is an interactive website that provides easy access to a wide range of seer cancer statistics. it provides detailed statistics for a cancer site by gender, race, calendar year, age, and for a selected number of cancer sites, by stage and histology., figure: anatomy of the female reproductive system; drawing shows the uterus, myometrium (muscular outer layer of the uterus), endometrium (inner lining of the uterus), ovaries, fallopian tubes, cervix, and vagina., the ovaries are a pair of organs in the female reproductive system. they are in the pelvis, one on each side of the uterus (the hollow, pear-shaped organ where a fetus grows). each ovary is about the size and shape of an almond. the ovaries make eggs and female hormones (chemicals that control the way certain cells or organs work)., additional information, here are some resources for learning more about ovarian cancer., all statistics in this report are based on statistics from seer and the centers for disease control and prevention's national center for health statistics. most can be found within seer*explorer., all material in this report is in the public domain and may be reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is appreciated., seer cancer stat facts: ovarian cancer. national cancer institute. bethesda, md, https://seer.cancer.gov/statfacts/html/ovary.html, these stat facts focus on population statistics that are based on the u.s. population. because these statistics are based on large groups of people, they cannot be used to predict exactly what will happen to an individual patient. to see tailored statistics, browse seer*explorer. to see statistics for a specific state, go to the state cancer profiles., the statistics presented in these stat facts are based on the most recent data available, most of which can be found in seer*explorer. in some cases, different year spans may be used., estimates of new cases and deaths for 2022 are projections made by the american cancer society (acs), based on earlier reported data., cancer is a complex topic. there is a wide range of information available. these stat facts do not address causes, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, follow-up care, or decision making, although links are provided to information in many of these areas., seer is supported by the surveillance research program (srp) in nci's division of cancer control and population sciences (dccps). srp provides national leadership in the science of cancer surveillance as well as analytical tools and methodological expertise in collecting, analyzing, interpreting, and disseminating reliable population-based statistics., nih... turning discovery into health®][cancer stat facts: ovarian cancer, statistics at a glance, at a glance, survival statistics, how many people survive 5 years or more after being diagnosed with ovarian cancer?, survival by stage, new cases and deaths, how common is this cancer?, who gets this cancer?, who dies from this cancer?, trends in rates, changes over time, interactive statistics with seer*explorer, more about this cancer, cancer and the ovary, more information, references, suggested citation, follow seer, contact information, more information, policies]ovarian cancer — cancer stat facts[reports on cancer, 49.7%, rate of new cases and deaths per 100,000:, lifetime risk of developing cancer, prevalence of this cancer, did you know?, 49.7%, additional information, percent of cases & 5-year relative survival by stage at diagnosis: ovarian cancer, localized, regional, distant, unknown, percent of cases by stage, localized (17%), regional (21%), distant (57%), unknown (5%), 5-year relative survival, additional information, 1.0%, rate of new cases per 100,000 persons by race/ethnicity: ovarian cancer, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian/pacific islander, non-hispanic american indian/alaska native, hispanic, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian/pacific islander, non-hispanic american indian/alaska native, hispanic, percent of new cases by age group: ovarian cancer, 63, death rate per 100,000 persons by race/ethnicity: ovarian cancer, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian/pacific islander, non-hispanic american indian/alaska native, hispanic, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian/pacific islander, non-hispanic american indian/alaska native, hispanic, percent of deaths by age group: ovarian cancer, 70, new cases, deaths and 5-year relative survival, with seer*explorer, you can..., figure: female reproductive anatomy, additional information][home, cancer statistics reports on cancer annual report to the nation on the status of cancer cancer stat facts cancer statistics review seer publications interactive tools, maps, & graphs cancer statistics explorer network cancer query systems understanding statistics did you know? video series defining cancer statistics glossary of statistical terms reports on cancer annual report to the nation on the status of cancer cancer stat facts cancer statistics review interactive tools, maps, & graphs cancer statistics explorer network cancer query systems understanding statistics did you know? video series defining cancer statistics glossary of statistical terms, reports on cancer annual report to the nation on the status of cancer cancer stat facts cancer statistics review seer publications, annual report to the nation on the status of cancer, cancer stat facts, cancer statistics review, seer publications, interactive tools, maps, & graphs cancer statistics explorer network cancer query systems, cancer statistics explorer network, cancer query systems, understanding statistics did you know? video series defining cancer statistics glossary of statistical terms, did you know? video series, defining cancer statistics, glossary of statistical terms, reports on cancer annual report to the nation on the status of cancer cancer stat facts cancer statistics review, annual report to the nation on the status of cancer, cancer stat facts, cancer statistics review, interactive tools, maps, & graphs cancer statistics explorer network cancer query systems, cancer statistics explorer network, cancer query systems, , understanding statistics did you know? video series defining cancer statistics glossary of statistical terms, did you know? video series, defining cancer statistics, glossary of statistical terms, seer data & software seer incidence database comparison of data products how to request the data documentation for data seer*stat database details variable and recode definitions u.s. datasets u.s. mortality u.s. populations standard populations seer linked databases statistical software seer*stat seer*prep methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics seer incidence database comparison of data products how to request the data documentation for data seer*stat database details variables and recode definitions u.s. datasets u.s. mortality u.s. populations standard populations seer linked databases statistical software seer*stat seer*prep methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics, seer incidence database comparison of data products how to request the data, comparison of data products, how to request the data, documentation for data seer*stat database details variable and recode definitions, seer*stat database details, variable and recode definitions, u.s. datasets u.s. mortality u.s. populations standard populations seer linked databases, u.s. mortality, u.s. populations, standard populations, seer linked databases, statistical software seer*stat seer*prep methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics, seer*stat, seer*prep, methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics, seer incidence database comparison of data products how to request the data, comparison of data products, how to request the data, documentation for data seer*stat database details variables and recode definitions, seer*stat database details, variables and recode definitions, u.s. datasets u.s. mortality u.s. populations standard populations seer linked databases, u.s. mortality, u.s. populations, standard populations, seer linked databases, statistical software seer*stat seer*prep methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics, seer*stat, seer*prep, methods & tools for population-based cancer statistics, registry operations reporting guidelines seer program coding manual hematopoietic project solid tumor rules tools & software glossary for registrars seer*rx - drug database seer abstracting tool seer data management system (seer*dms) questions & answers seer inquiry system ask a seer registrar data collection answers staging registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa) summary stage 2018 staging resources extent of disease 2018 training reporting guidelines seer program coding manual hematopoietic project solid tumor rules tools & software glossary for registrars seer*rx - drug database seer abstracting tool seer data management system (seer*dms) questions & answers seer inquiry system ask a seer registrar data collection answers staging registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa) summary stage 2018 staging resources extent of disease 2018 training, reporting guidelines seer program coding manual hematopoietic project solid tumor rules, seer program coding manual, hematopoietic project, solid tumor rules, tools & software glossary for registrars seer*rx - drug database seer abstracting tool seer data management system (seer*dms), glossary for registrars, seer*rx - drug database, seer abstracting tool, seer data management system (seer*dms), questions & answers seer inquiry system ask a seer registrar data collection answers, seer inquiry system, ask a seer registrar, data collection answers, staging registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa) summary stage 2018 staging resources extent of disease 2018, registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa), summary stage 2018, staging resources, extent of disease 2018, training, , reporting guidelines seer program coding manual hematopoietic project solid tumor rules, seer program coding manual, hematopoietic project, solid tumor rules, tools & software glossary for registrars seer*rx - drug database seer abstracting tool seer data management system (seer*dms), glossary for registrars, seer*rx - drug database, seer abstracting tool, seer data management system (seer*dms), questions & answers seer inquiry system ask a seer registrar data collection answers, seer inquiry system, ask a seer registrar, data collection answers, staging registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa) summary stage 2018 staging resources extent of disease 2018, registrar staging assistant (seer*rsa), summary stage 2018, staging resources, extent of disease 2018, training, news & events, about, home, cancer statistics, reports on cancer, cancer stat facts, ovarian cancer — cancer stat facts, annual report to the nation, cancer stat facts, cancer statistics review archive, archive, preliminary incidence rates for 2017 preliminary estimates for 2017 february delay-adjustment validation datasets and archive, preliminary estimates for 2017, february delay-adjustment, validation, datasets and archive, seer publications monographs cancer patterns among asian and pacific islanders in the u.s., monographs, cancer patterns among asian and pacific islanders in the u.s., more about survival statistics, additional ovarian cancer survival statistics in seer*explorer, localized (17%) confined to primary site, regional (21%) spread to regional lymph nodes, distant (57%) cancer has metastasized, unknown (5%) unstaged, more about ovarian cancer staging, additional statistics on ovarian cancer by stage in seer*explorer, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian / pacific islander, non-hispanic american / indian alaska native, hispanic, all races, non-hispanic white, non-hispanic black, non-hispanic asian / pacific islander, non-hispanic american / indian alaska native, hispanic, create custom graphs and tables, download data and images, share links to results, learn more about ovarian cancer, more about risk factors for ovarian cancer, more about symptoms and diagnosis of ovarian cancer, more about treatment options for ovarian cancer, more about clinical trials, more about cancer prevention, , , contact seer, nci livehelp online chat, careers, sitemap, using this website, accessibility, disclaimer, foia, hhs vulnerability disclosure, privacy & security, reuse of graphics and text, website linking, u.s. department of health and human services, national institutes of health, national cancer institute, usa.gov]