[get 3% daily cash back with apple card. and pay for your new iphone over 24 months, interest‑free when you choose to check out with apple card monthly installments.* learn more, oh. so. pro., 1, , view iphone 13 pro in ar, your new superpower., 1 **, , view iphone 13 in ar, love the power. love the price., 1, , view iphone se in ar, the ultimate iphone., , learn more, learn more, view in ar, all-screen oled display2 with promotion, pro camera system, telephoto, wide, ultra wide, a15 bionic chip, 5‑core gpu, superfast 5g cellular3, up to 28 hours video playback4, face id, a total powerhouse., **, learn more, learn more, view in ar, all-screen oled display2, advanced dual‑camera system, wide, ultra wide, a15 bionic chip, 4‑core gpu, superfast 5g cellular3, up to 19 hours video playback4, face id, serious power. serious value., , learn more, learn more, view in ar, lcd display, single-camera system, wide, a15 bionic chip, 4‑core gpu, 5g cellular3, up to 15 hours video playback4, touch id, as amazing as ever., **, learn more, learn more, view in ar, all-screen oled display2, dual‑camera system, wide, ultra wide, a14 bionic chip, superfast 5g cellular3, up to 17 hours video playback4, face id, save up to $800 on iphone 13 and iphone 13 pro after trade‑in.5, save up to $700, get $400 ‑ $850 in creditget $400 to $850 in credit, save up to $800, find your deal, our specialists can help you shop — online or in store. connect with an iphone specialist, with apple trade in, you can get credit toward a new iphone when you trade in an eligible smartphone.6 it’s good for you and the planet., learn more, and pay for your new iphone over 24 months, interest‑free when you choose to check out with apple card monthly installments.*, learn more, you can choose a payment option that works for you, pay less with a trade‑in, connect your new iphone to your carrier, and get set up quickly. you can also chat with a specialist anytime., learn more, snap on a magnetic case, wallet, or both. and get faster wireless charging., attach one to your keys. put another in your backpack. if they’re misplaced, just use the find my app., explore all airpods models and find the best ones for you., on any in‑stock iphone ordered by 5:00 p.m. or pick up available items at an apple store., learn more, you can pay over time when you choose to check out with apple card monthly installments.*, learn more, have a question? call a specialist or chat online. call 1‑800‑my‑apple., learn more, in touch. in the moment., learn moreabout ios 15, in touch. in the moment., learn moreabout ios 15, what you share should be up to you., virtual sessions, learn the basics of using iphone live with apple creatives., bundle up to six apple services. and enjoy more for less., get 3 months of apple tv+ free when you buy an iphone.8, try it free, learn moreabout apple tv plus, over 90 million songs. start listening for free today., hundreds of magazines and leading newspapers. one subscription., try it free10, get 3 months of apple arcade free when you buy an iphone., the first fitness service powered by apple watch., try it free9, for everything and everyone., the future of health research is you., learn more][iphone, iphone 13 pro, take it for a spin., iphone 13, take it for a spin., iphone se, take it for a spin., a guided tour of iphone 13 & iphone 13 pro, which iphone is right for you?, new iphone 13 pro, new iphone 13, new iphone se, iphone 12, ways to buy iphone, special carrier deals at apple, trade in your smartphone for credit., get 3% daily cash back with apple card., why apple is the best place to buy iphone., featured accessories, magsafe, airtag, airpods, free next‑day delivery, pay monthly at 0% apr, get help buying, what makes an iphone an iphone?, ios 15, ios 15, switching to iphone is super simple., privacy, get more out of your iphone., today at apple, apple one, apple tv plus, apple music, apple news plus, apple arcade, fitness+, apple gift card, introducing the apple research app., update to the latest version of ios or macos to start your apple news+ free trial., upgrade to start your free trial., apple footer, shop and learn, services, account, apple store, for business, for education, for healthcare, for government, apple values, about apple]iphone - apple[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, iphone 13 pro new, iphone 13 pro new, iphone 13 new, iphone 13 new, iphone se new, iphone 12, iphone 11, compare, airpods, airtag, accessories, apple card, ios 15, shop iphone, buy, learn more, learn more, new alpine green, silver, gold, graphite, sierra blue, buy, learn more, learn more, new green, pink, blue, midnight, starlight, (product)red, buy, learn more, midnight, starlight, (product)red, compare all iphone models, shop iphone, shop magsafe accessories, buy, learn more, learn more, try it free7, learn more, try it free9, learn more, try it free11, learn more, get the latest ios, get the latest ipados, get the latest macos, get the latest tvos, * apple card monthly installments (acmi) is a 0% apr payment option available to select at checkout for certain apple products purchased at apple store locations, apple.com, the apple store app, or by calling 1-800-my-apple, and is subject to credit approval and credit limit. see https://support.apple.com/kb/ht211204 for more information about eligible products. variable aprs for apple card other than acmi range from 11.24% to 22.24% based on creditworthiness. rates as of april 1, 2022. if you choose the pay‑in‑full or one‑time‑payment option for an acmi‑eligible purchase instead of choosing acmi as the payment option at checkout, that purchase will be subject to the variable apr assigned to your apple card. taxes and shipping are not included in acmi and are subject to your card’s variable apr. see the apple card customer agreement for more information. acmi is not available for purchases made online at the following special stores: apple employee purchase plan; participating corporate employee purchase programs; apple at work for small businesses; government, and veterans and military purchase programs, or on refurbished devices. iphone activation required on iphone purchases made at an apple store with one of these national carriers: at&t, sprint, verizon, or t‑mobile., ** price includes a $30 at&t, t-mobile, sprint, or verizon discount. requires activation with carrier., available to qualified customers and requires 24‑month installment loan when you select citizens one or apple card monthly installments (acmi) as payment type at checkout at apple. iphone activation required with at&t, t‑mobile, sprint, or verizon for purchases made with acmi at an apple store. subject to credit approval and credit limit. taxes and shipping are not included in acmi and are subject to your card’s variable apr. additional apple card monthly installments terms are in the customer agreement. additional iphone payments terms are here. acmi is not available for purchases made online at special storefronts. the last month’s payment for each product will be the product's purchase price, less all other payments at the monthly payment amount., the display has rounded corners that follow a beautiful curved design, and these corners are within a standard rectangle. when measured as a standard rectangular shape, the screen is 5.42 inches (iphone 13 mini), 6.06 inches (iphone 13, iphone 13 pro), 6.68 inches (iphone 13 pro max), 5.42 inches (iphone 12 mini), or 6.06 inches (iphone 12, iphone 11) diagonally. actual viewable area is less., data plan required. 5g and lte are available in select markets and through select carriers. speeds vary by site conditions and carrier. for details on 5g and lte support, contact your carrier and see apple.com/iphone/cellular., all battery claims depend on network configuration and many other factors; actual results will vary. battery has limited recharge cycles and may eventually need to be replaced. battery life and charge cycles vary by use and settings. see apple.com/batteries and apple.com/iphone/battery.html for more information., at&t special deal: offer pricing will reflect application of at&t trade‑in credit applied over 36 months after trade‑in of eligible smartphone. requires upgrade of an existing line or activation of a new line and purchase of a new iphone 13 mini, iphone 13, iphone 13 pro, or iphone 13 pro max on qualifying 36‑month 0% apr installment plan, subject to carrier credit qualification. at&t installment plan with next up is not eligible for this promotion. $0 down for well‑qualified customers only, or down payment may be required and depends on a variety of factors. tax on full retail price due at sale. requires activation on eligible unlimited plan. if you cancel eligible wireless service, credits will stop and you will owe the remaining device balance. activation/upgrade fee: $30. trade‑in device may not be on existing installment plan. bill credits are applied as a monthly credit over the 36‑month installment plan. credits start within 3 bills. will receive catch‑up credits once credits start. wireless line must be on an installment agreement, active, and in good standing for 30 days to qualify. installment agreement starts when device is shipped. to get all credits, device must remain on agreement for entire term and you must keep eligible service on device for entire installment term. limited‑time offer; subject to change. limits: one trade‑in per qualifying purchase and one credit per line. may not be combinable with other offers, discounts, or credits. purchase, financing, other limits, and restrictions apply. price for iphone 13 and iphone 13 mini includes $30 at&t instant discount. activation required. t‑mobile/sprint special deal: t‑mobile/sprint trade‑in credit in the form of a rebate with virtual prepaid card when you trade in a qualifying device. limited‑time offer; subject to change. requires activation on any t‑mobile/sprint data plan and submission of a promo code at promotions.t‑mobile.com. $200 rebate via virtual prepaid mastercard® card, which you can use online or in‑store via accepted mobile payment apps; no cash access & expires in 6 months from issuance. card is issued by sunrise banks n.a., member fdic, pursuant to a license from mastercard international incorporated. mastercard is a registered trademark of mastercard international incorporated. use of this card constitutes acceptance of the terms and conditions stated in the cardholder agreement. lines must be active and in good standing when card is issued. allow up to 2 billing cycles after fulfillment of offer requirements. max 4 per account offer/discounted devices/account. may not be combined with some offers or discounts. sales tax may be assessed on full value of new iphone. requires trade‑in of an iphone xr or newer in good condition, excluding iphone se (2nd generation). must be at least 18 to trade in. apple or its trade‑in partners reserve the right to refuse or limit any trade‑in transaction for any reason. in‑store trade‑in requires presentation of a valid, government‑issued photo id (local law may require saving this information). in‑store promotion availability subject to local law; speak to a specialist to learn more. additional terms from apple, t‑mobile/sprint, and apple’s trade‑in partners may apply. verizon special deal: offer pricing will reflect application of verizon's trade‑in credit up to $800 (iphone 13, iphone 13 pro, iphone 13 pro max and iphone 13 mini) or $425 (iphone 12) or $375 (iphone 12 mini) after trade‑in of eligible smartphone. savings comprised of (i) apple instant trade‑in credit at checkout and (ii) verizon monthly bill credits applied over 36 months. customer must remain in the verizon device payment program for 36 months to receive the full benefit of the verizon bill credits. bill credits may take 1‑2 bill cycles to appear. if it takes two cycles for bill credits to appear, you'll see the credit for the first cycle on your second bill in addition to that month's credit. requires purchase and activation of a new iphone 12 mini, iphone 12, iphone 13 mini, iphone 13, iphone 13 pro, or iphone 13 pro max with the verizon device payment program at 0% apr for 36 months, subject to carrier credit qualification, and iphone availability and limits. taxes and shipping not included in monthly price. sales tax may be assessed on full value of new iphone. requires eligible unlimited service plan. requires trade‑in of eligible device in eligible condition. must be at least 18 to trade‑in. apple or its trade‑in partners reserve the right to refuse or limit any trade‑in transaction for any reason. in‑store trade‑in requires presentation of a valid, government‑issued photo id (local law may require saving this information). in‑store promotion availability subject to local law; speak to a specialist to learn more. limited‑time offer; subject to change. additional terms from apple, verizon, and apple's trade‑in partners may apply. price for iphone 12 mini, iphone 12, iphone 13 mini, and iphone 13 includes $30 verizon instant discount. activation required., trade-in values will vary based on the condition, year, and configuration of your eligible trade-in device. not all devices are eligible for credit. you must be at least 18 years old to be eligible to trade in for credit or for an apple gift card. trade-in value may be applied toward qualifying new device purchase, or added to an apple gift card. actual value awarded is based on receipt of a qualifying device matching the description provided when estimate was made. sales tax may be assessed on full value of a new device purchase. in-store trade-in requires presentation of a valid photo id (local law may require saving this information). offer may not be available in all stores, and may vary between in-store and online trade-in. some stores may have additional requirements. apple or its trade-in partners reserve the right to refuse or limit quantity of any trade-in transaction for any reason. more details are available from apple’s trade-in partner for trade-in and recycling of eligible devices. restrictions and limitations may apply., the apple one free trial includes only services that you are not currently using through a free trial or a subscription. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., $4.99/month after free trial. only one offer per apple id and only one offer per family if you’re part of a family sharing group, regardless of the number of devices you or your family purchases. this offer is not available if you or your family have previously accepted an apple tv+ one year free offer. offer good for 3 months after eligible device activation. plan automatically renews until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., new subscribers only. $9.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled., new subscribers only. $9.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled., $4.99/month after free trial. only one offer per apple id and only one offer per family if you’re part of a family sharing group, regardless of the number of devices you or your family purchases. offer good for 3 months after eligible device activation. plan automatically renews until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., text contained in the billie eilish, the englishman at the moulin rouge, lavender, golden retriever and muscari wikipedia entries is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license at http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0. wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the wikimedia foundation, inc., a nonprofit organization., to access and use all the features of apple card, you must add apple card to wallet on an iphone or ipad with the latest version of ios or ipados. update to the latest version by going to settings > general > software update. tap download and install., available for qualifying applicants in the united states., apple card is issued by goldman sachs bank usa, salt lake city branch., if you reside in the u.s. territories, please call goldman sachs at 877‑255‑5923 with questions about apple card., iphone, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, ipod touch, airtag, accessories, gift cards, apple music, apple tv+, apple fitness+, apple news+, apple arcade, icloud, apple one, apple card, apple books, apple podcasts, app store, manage your apple id, apple store account, icloud.com, find a store, genius bar, today at apple, apple camp, apple store app, refurbished and clearance, financing, apple trade in, order status, shopping help, apple and business, shop for business, apple and education, shop for k-12, shop for college, apple in healthcare, health on apple watch, health records on iphone, shop for government, shop for veterans and military, accessibility, education, environment, inclusion and diversity, privacy, racial equity and justice, supplier responsibility, newsroom, apple leadership, career opportunities, investors, ethics & compliance, events, contact apple]