[get 3% daily cash back with apple card. and pay for your new ipad over 12 months, interest-free when you choose to check out with apple card monthly installments.* learn more, light. bright. full of might., , learn more, the ultimate ipad experience., , learn more, delightfully capable. surprisingly affordable., , learn more, mega power. mini sized., , learn more, the ultimate ipad experience., , learn more, view in ar, 12.9” and 11”, 12.9” liquid retina xdr display1, 11” liquid retina display1, m1 chip, 12mp wide and 10mp ultra wide back cameras, 12mp, truedepth front camera with center stage, usb-c connector with support for thunderbolt / usb 4, 5g cellular2, works with apple pencil (2nd generation), works with magic keyboard and smart keyboard folio, powerful. colorful. wonderful., , learn more, view in ar, 10.9”, liquid retina display1, m1 chip, 12mp wide back camera, 12mp, ultra wide front camera with center stage, usb-c connector, 5g cellular2, works with apple pencil (2nd generation), works with magic keyboard and smart keyboard folio, delightfully capable. surprisingly affordable., , learn more, view in ar, 10.2”, retina display, a13 bionic chip, 8mp wide back camera, 12mp, ultra wide front camera with center stage, lightning connector, 4g lte cellular2, works with apple pencil (1st generation), works with smart keyboard, mega power. mini sized., , learn more, view in ar, 8.3”, liquid retina display1, a15 bionic chip, 12mp wide back camera, 12mp, ultra wide front camera with center stage, usb-c connector, 5g cellular2, works with apple pencil (2nd generation), works with bluetooth keyboards, and pay over time, interest‑free when you choose to check out with apple card monthly installments.*, learn more, with apple trade in, just give us your eligible ipad and get credit for a new one. it’s good for you and the planet.**, learn more, choose free delivery or pick up available items at an apple store., you can pay over time when you choose to check out with apple card monthly installments.*, engrave your ipad with your name or a personal note — free. only at apple., dream it up. jot it down., keyboards that have you covered., explore cases, covers, keyboards, apple pencil, airpods, and more., shop ipad accessories, yes, it does that. and then some., learn more, work wonders. with ease., learn more of what’s new in ipados 15, the best place for all your photos, files, and more., learn more, the safer way to make secure, contactless purchases in stores and online., learn more, learn the basics of using ipad live with apple creatives., sign up, bundle up to six apple services. and enjoy more for less., get 3 months of apple tv+ free when you buy an ipad., over 90 million songs. start listening for free today., the first fitness service powered by apple watch., get 3 months of apple arcade free when you buy an ipad., hundreds of magazines and leading newspapers. one subscription., for everything and everyone., empowering educators and students to move the world forward., learn more, learn more, to access and use all the features of apple card, you must add apple card to wallet on an iphone or ipad with the latest version of ios or ipados. update to the latest version by going to settings > general > software update. tap download and install. available for qualifying applicants in the united states. apple card is issued by goldman sachs bank usa, salt lake city branch.][ipad, new ipad air, ipad pro, ipad, ipad mini, which ipad is right for you?, ipad pro, new ipad air, ipad, ipad mini, get 3% daily cash back with apple card., trade in your current ipad and get credit toward a new one., fast, free delivery, pay monthly at 0% apr, personalize it, ipad essentials, apple pencil, keyboards for ipad, accessories, what makes an ipad an ipad?, why ipad, ipados 15, icloud, apple pay, get more out of your ipad, today at apple, apple one, apple tv plus, apple music, apple fitness plus, apple arcade, upgrade to start your free trial., apple news plus, apple gift card, apple and education, apple at work, update to the latest version of ios or macos to start your apple news+ free trial., apple footer, shop and learn, services, account, apple store, for business, for education, for healthcare, for government, apple values, about apple]ipad - apple[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, ipad pro, ipad air new, ipad, ipad mini, compare, apple pencil, keyboards, airpods, accessories, ipados, shop ipad, compare all ipad models, shop ipad, shop, learn more, shop, learn more, try it free3, learn more, try it free4, learn moreabout apple tv plus, try it free5, learn more, try it free5, learn more, try it free6, learn moreabout apple arcade, get the latest ios, get the latest ipados, get the latest tvos, get the latest macos, try it free7, learn moreabout apple news plus, learn moreabout apple gift card, buy, * apple card monthly installments (acmi) is a 0% apr payment option available to select at checkout for certain apple products purchased at apple store locations, apple.com, the apple store app, or by calling 1-800-my-apple, and is subject to credit approval and credit limit. see support.apple.com/kb/ht211204 for more information about eligible products. variable aprs for apple card other than acmi range from 11.24% to 22.24% based on creditworthiness. rates as of april 1, 2022. if you choose the pay-in-full or one-time-payment option for an acmi eligible purchase instead of choosing acmi as the payment option at checkout, that purchase will be subject to the variable apr assigned to your apple card. taxes and shipping are not included in acmi and are subject to your card’s variable apr. see the apple card customer agreement for more information. acmi is not available for purchases made online at the following special stores: apple employee purchase plan; participating corporate employee purchase programs; apple at work for small businesses; government, and veterans and military purchase programs, or on refurbished devices. iphone activation required on iphone purchases made at an apple store with one of these national carriers: at&t, sprint, verizon, or t-mobile., ** trade-in values will vary based on the condition, year, and configuration of your eligible trade-in device. not all devices are eligible for credit. you must be at least 18 years old to be eligible to trade in for credit or for an apple gift card. trade-in value may be applied toward qualifying new device purchase, or added to an apple gift card. actual value awarded is based on receipt of a qualifying device matching the description provided when estimate was made. sales tax may be assessed on full value of a new device purchase. in-store trade-in requires presentation of a valid photo id (local law may require saving this information). offer may not be available in all stores, and may vary between in-store and online trade-in. some stores may have additional requirements. apple or its trade-in partners reserve the right to refuse or limit quantity of any trade-in transaction for any reason. more details are available from apple’s trade-in partner for trade-in and recycling of eligible devices. restrictions and limitations may apply., the displays have rounded corners. when measured diagonally as a rectangle, the ipad pro 12.9‑inch screen is 12.9 inches, the ipad pro 11‑inch screen is 11 inches, the ipad air screen is 10.86 inches, and the ipad mini screen is 8.3 inches. actual viewable area is less., data plan required. 5g and 4g lte are available in select markets and through select carriers. for details on 5g and lte support, contact your carrier and see apple.com/ipad/cellular., the apple one free trial includes only services that you are not currently using through a free trial or a subscription. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., $4.99/month after free trial. only one offer per apple id and only one offer per family if you’re part of a family sharing group, regardless of the number of devices you or your family purchases. this offer is not available if you or your family have previously accepted an apple tv+ one year free offer. offer good for 3 months after eligible device activation. plan automatically renews until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., new subscribers only. $9.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled., $4.99/month after free trial. only one offer per apple id and only one offer per family if you’re part of a family sharing group, regardless of the number of devices you or your family purchases. offer good for 3 months after eligible device activation. plan automatically renews until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., new subscribers only. $9.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled., to access and use all the features of apple card, you must add apple card to wallet on an iphone or ipad with the latest version of ios or ipados. update to the latest version by going to settings > general > software update. tap download and install. available for qualifying applicants in the united states. apple card is issued by goldman sachs bank usa, salt lake city branch., ipad, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, ipod touch, airtag, accessories, gift cards, apple music, apple tv+, apple fitness+, apple news+, apple arcade, icloud, apple one, apple card, apple books, apple podcasts, app store, manage your apple id, apple store account, icloud.com, find a store, genius bar, today at apple, apple camp, apple store app, refurbished and clearance, financing, apple trade in, order status, shopping help, apple and business, shop for business, apple and education, shop for k-12, shop for college, apple in healthcare, health on apple watch, health records on iphone, shop for government, shop for veterans and military, accessibility, education, environment, inclusion and diversity, privacy, racial equity and justice, supplier responsibility, newsroom, apple leadership, career opportunities, investors, ethics & compliance, events, contact apple]