[as humans, we’re hardwired for connection. belonging to a community makes us feel safe and helps us thrive. but so often, living with breast cancer (bc) can make you feel physically and emotionally isolated. not only can it be hard to do things you loved before your diagnosis, but it can also feel like no one understands what it’s like. until now. our mission is to cultivate a space powered by the bc community and empowered by each other. from one-to-one chats to conversation forums, we make connecting easy. this is a safe place to find and receive advice, to seek and offer support, and to discover the authentic stories of members, just like you. bezzy bc is a free online platform bringing new meaning to the word “community.” our aim is to create an experience where: - everyone feels seen, valued, and understood - everyone’s story matters - shared vulnerability is the name of the game bezzy bc is a place where you are more than your bc. it’s a place where, finally, you belong. how it works social-first content like all of your favorite social networks, we’ve designed an activity feed to connect you with other members living with breast cancer. we pride ourselves on making bezzy bc a safe and secure space where you can join live discussions, connect one-to-one, and read the latest articles and personal stories. live chats need to vent? get advice? share what’s on your mind? hop into a daily live chat to join the conversation. they’re often led by our amazing community guide, but you can also expect to chat with other advocates and experts, too. forums from treatments to symptoms to daily living, bc changes everything. whatever you're feeling on any given day, there's a forum where you can connect and share directly with others. 1:1 messaging let us connect you with a new member from our community every day. we’ll recommend members to you based on your treatment plan, lifestyle interests, and needs. browse member profiles and request to connect with anyone from our community with members listed as “online now.” discover articles and stories we believe that shared experiences empower the kind of belonging that can help people not only survive—but thrive—with breast cancer. our stories offer perspectives and tips from people who know what it’s like. get handpicked wellness and member stories delivered to you each week. connect safely anytime, anywhere we take thoughtful steps to build safety, security, and privacy into our platform and foster an environment where members feel safe sharing their personal experiences. check and send messages, see who’s online, and get notified when a new message comes in—so you’ll never miss a thing. about healthline healthline media is the top ranked health publisher and number 44 on comscore’s top 100 property rankings. across all of its properties, healthline media each month publishes up to 1,000 scientifically accurate yet reader-friendly articles authored by more than 120 writers and reviewed by more than 100 doctors, clinicians, nutritionists, and other experts. the company’s repository contains more than 70,000 articles, each updated with current protocol. more than 200 million people worldwide and 86 million people in the u.s. visit healthline’s sites each month, according to google analytics and comscore, respectively., version 8.2.3, we’re always making strides to ensure bezzy breast cancer is the best version of itself. this update includes: - small updates and bug fixes: optimizations to help improve your experience, 1.9k ratings, i had breast cancer 21 years. i had my left breast. and then had reconstructed . and they used my muscle from my right side . i had everything done the same day. the operation was 7 hours. i had chemo and radiation. i did loss all of my hair. i can back thicker the what what it was before.. i know thing have changed in the last 21 years . you have to lesson to your doctor. and then take one day at a time. thank you miss dagons, this app is super glitchy. i ran into a lot of problems trying to set up my profile and navigate the posts and posting my own thoughts. some of my trouble may have been user error, my brain has been mush since i started treatment, but when i reached out to tech support for help, there were a lot of words with no follow through. in fact, the gal helping me disappeared in the middle of our exchange without a word and without fixing my problem. i hope she’s okay. i totally understand that life happens (boy do i!) but it’s been three days and no one else who runs this app has taken her place to finish what she started. i’m deleting my account. i’ve got too much on my plate as it is without using this much energy to find a little support while i fight breast cancer. deeply uncool., after several failed attempts to connect with someone, i communicated with someone regularly only to find out weeks later that we had practically grown up next door to each other even though she was now 3,000 miles away. that sense of connection was wonderful and boosted me up when i was at my lowest! if at first you don’t connect just keep trying. when you do it is so worth it!, the developer, healthline media, inc, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be used to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies:, the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, bezzy ms, bezzy ibd, bezzy migraine, bezzy t2d, bezzy ra, bezzy psa, belong beating cancer together, chemowave: cancer health diary, livingwith®: cancer support, my breast cancer coach, outcomes4me breast cancer care, acs reach][bezzy breast cancer 17+, social community support chat, healthline media, inc, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, breast cancer, not a fan..., connections, app privacy, data used to track you, data not linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎bezzy breast cancer on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.8 • 1.9k ratings, 4.8 • 1.9k ratings, free, free, iphone, ipad, , , , , , contact info, identifiers, usage data, health & fitness, location, contact info, user content, search history, identifiers, usage data, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]