[get the most out of the devices you love with high‑quality content and services. award‑winning series and films, amazing music in spatial audio, world-class workouts and meditations, trusted news publications, superfun games — even the ways you pay for things. and they’re only on apple., get up to six services in one subscription with apple one., a lifetime of photos on all your devices., record home security video. view it from anywhere.7, share photos, folders, and files with ease., store files in the cloud. keep them safe. access them from anywhere., automatic backups give you peace of mind.8, browse like it’s nobody’s business. because it isn’t., bundle up to six apple services and enjoy more for less., no fees. not even hidden ones.10, up to 3% unlimited daily cash back on every purchase., apply in minutes to see if you are approved, with no impact to your credit score.11, the first credit card that encourages you to pay less interest., built for privacy and security., interest‑free payments on apple purchases if you choose to pay with apple card monthly installments.12, apple pay, today’s way to pay., wallet, credit cards, boarding passes, and more. all in one place., apple cash, spend it. send it. stash it., to access and use all the features of apple card, you must add apple card to wallet on an iphone or ipad with the latest version of ios or ipados. update to the latest version by going to settings > general > software update. tap download and install. available for qualifying applicants in the united states. apple card is issued by goldman sachs bank usa, salt lake city branch.][the best experiences. only on apple., apple tv+, stream award-winning apple originals on every screen., apple music, listen to music you love in spatial audio with dolby atmos.2, apple fitness+, from hiit to meditation, there’s something for everyone., apple arcade, best collection of mobile games for every player., apple news+, hundreds of magazines and leading newspapers. one subscription., icloud, the best place for photos and files. great features to protect your privacy., apple one, apple podcasts, millions of shows, from the biggest names to the best independents., apple books, read, listen, discover. all in one place., apple card, the simplicity of apple. in a credit card., even more experiences, at your service., apple footer, shop and learn, services, account, apple store, for business, for education, for healthcare, for government, apple values, about apple]only on apple - services - apple[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, apple tv+, apple music, apple fitness+, apple arcade, apple news+, icloud, apple podcasts, apple books, apple card, wallet, a lifetime of photos on all your devices., record home security video. view it from anywhere.7, share photos, folders, and files with ease., store files in the cloud. keep them safe. access them from anywhere., automatic backups give you peace of mind.8, browse like it’s nobody’s business. because it isn’t., try it free9, learn more, no fees. not even hidden ones.10, up to 3% unlimited daily cash back on every purchase., apply in minutes to see if you are approved, with no impact to your credit score.11, the first credit card that encourages you to pay less interest., built for privacy and security., interest‑free payments on apple purchases if you choose to pay with apple card monthly installments.12, new subscribers only. $4.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews until cancelled. terms apply., compatible hardware and software required. not all content available in dolby atmos., new subscribers only. $9.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews until cancelled. terms apply., apple watch required. new subscribers only. $9.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled. terms apply., new subscribers only. $4.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews until cancelled. terms apply., new subscribers only. $9.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews until cancelled. terms apply., homekit secure video requires a supported icloud+ plan, compatible homekit-enabled security camera, and homepod, apple tv, or ipad running as a home hub., backup of purchased music is not available in all countries or regions. previous purchases may not be restored if they are no longer on the itunes store, app store, or apple books., the apple one free trial includes only services that you are not currently using through a free trial or a subscription. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., variable aprs range from 11.24% to 22.24% based on creditworthiness. rates as of april 1, 2022., accepting an apple card after your application is approved will result in a hard inquiry, which may impact your credit score., apple card monthly installments (acmi) is a 0% apr payment option available to select at checkout for certain apple products purchased at apple store locations, apple.com, the apple store app, or by calling 1-800-my-apple, and is subject to credit approval and credit limit. see https://support.apple.com/kb/ht211204 for more information about eligible products. variable aprs for apple card other than acmi range from 11.24% to 22.24% based on creditworthiness. rates as of april 1, 2022. if you choose the pay-in-full or one-time-payment option for an acmi eligible purchase instead of choosing acmi as the payment option at checkout, that purchase will be subject to the variable apr assigned to your apple card. taxes and shipping are not included in acmi and are subject to your card’s variable apr. see the apple card customer agreement for more information. acmi is not available for purchases made online at the following special stores: apple employee purchase plan; participating corporate employee purchase programs; apple at work for small businesses; government, and veterans and military purchase programs, or on refurbished devices. iphone activation required on iphone purchases made at an apple store with one of these national carriers: at&t, sprint, verizon, or t-mobile., icloud requires ios 5 or later on iphone 3gs or later, ipod touch (3rd generation or later), ipad pro, ipad or later, ipad air or later, or ipad mini or later; a mac computer with os x lion 10.7.5 or later; or a pc with windows 7 or windows 8 (outlook 2007 or later or an up-to-date browser is required for accessing email, contacts, and calendars). some features require ios 15 or ipados 15 and macos monterey. some features require a wi-fi connection. some features are not available in all countries or regions. access to some services is limited to 10 devices., to access and use all the features of apple card, you must add apple card to wallet on an iphone or ipad with the latest version of ios or ipados. update to the latest version by going to settings > general > software update. tap download and install. available for qualifying applicants in the united states. apple card is issued by goldman sachs bank usa, salt lake city branch., only on apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, ipod touch, airtag, accessories, gift cards, apple music, apple tv+, apple fitness+, apple news+, apple arcade, icloud, apple one, apple card, apple books, apple podcasts, app store, manage your apple id, apple store account, icloud.com, find a store, genius bar, today at apple, apple camp, apple store app, refurbished and clearance, financing, apple trade in, order status, shopping help, apple and business, shop for business, apple and education, shop for k-12, shop for college, apple in healthcare, health on apple watch, health records on iphone, shop for government, shop for veterans and military, accessibility, education, environment, inclusion and diversity, privacy, racial equity and justice, supplier responsibility, newsroom, apple leadership, career opportunities, investors, ethics & compliance, events, contact apple]