[][apple, iphone 13 pro, oh. so. pro., iphone se, love the power. love the price., ipad air, light. bright. full of might., apple footer, shop and learn, services, account, apple store, for business, for education, for healthcare, for government, apple values, about apple]apple[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, to access and use all the features of apple card, you must add apple card to wallet on an iphone or ipad with the latest version of ios or ipados. update to the latest version by going to settings > general > software update. tap download and install., available for qualifying applicants in the united states., apple card is issued by goldman sachs bank usa, salt lake city branch., learn more about how apple card applications are evaluated at support.apple.com/kb/ht209218., $4.99/month after free trial. only one offer per apple id and only one offer per family if you’re part of a family sharing group, regardless of the number of devices you or your family purchases. this offer is not available if you or your family have previously accepted an apple tv+ one year free offer. offer good for 3 months after eligible device activation. plan automatically renews until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, ipod touch, airtag, accessories, gift cards, apple music, apple tv+, apple fitness+, apple news+, apple arcade, icloud, apple one, apple card, apple books, apple podcasts, app store, manage your apple id, apple store account, icloud.com, find a store, genius bar, today at apple, apple camp, apple store app, refurbished and clearance, financing, apple trade in, order status, shopping help, apple and business, shop for business, apple and education, shop for k-12, shop for college, apple in healthcare, health on apple watch, health records on iphone, shop for government, shop for veterans and military, accessibility, education, environment, inclusion and diversity, privacy, racial equity and justice, supplier responsibility, newsroom, apple leadership, career opportunities, investors, ethics & compliance, events, contact apple]