[get 6 months of apple music free with your airpods.* learn more, 3rd generation, , , , 2nd generation, , connect immediately to your iphone or ipad., automatic switching allows sound to move seamlessly between your iphone, apple watch, ipad, mac, and apple tv.1, share a song, podcast, or other audio between two sets of airpods with audio sharing.2, hey siri, play some workout music, a simple “hey siri” summons your favorite personal assistant. control your music, calls, volume, directions, and more — without lifting a finger., skyler said: “heading to the store. need anything?”, siri can read your important messages or alerts as they arrive — unless you're on a call or listening to music. you can even reply to messages without opening your device.3, 4 5 6 7 †, , —, spatial audio unavailable, —, active noise cancellation and transparency mode unavailable, —, sweat and water resistance unavailable, lightning charging, up to 5 hours of listening time with a single charge 7 16 15 11 18 8 14 9 12, , spatial audio with dynamic head tracking 4 13 12 1 1 1 1 1 1, —, active noise cancellation and transparency mode unavailable, sweat and water resistant 5 14 13 2 2 2 2 7 10, magsafe, wireless, and lightning charging 6 15 14 10 17 7 13 8 11, up to 6 hours of listening time with a single charge 7 16 15 11 18 8 14 9 12, , spatial audio with dynamic head tracking 4 13 12 1 1 1 1 1 1, active noise cancellation and transparency mode, sweat and water resistant 5 14 13 2 2 2 2 7 10, magsafe, wireless, and lightning charging 6 15 14 10 17 7 13 8 11, up to 4.5 hours of listening time with a single charge 7 16 15 11 18 8 14 9 12, , spatial audio with dynamic head tracking 4 13 12 1 1 1 1 1 1, active noise cancellation and transparency mode, —, sweat and water resistance unavailable, lightning charging, up to 20 hours of listening time with a single charge 7 16 15 11 18 8 14 9 12, compare all airpods models, choose free delivery or pick up available items at an apple store., you can pay over time when you choose to check out with apple card monthly installments.†, have a question? call a specialist or chat online., call 1-800-my-apple., engrave your airpods with your initials or favorite emoji — free. only at apple.][airpods, airpods, airpods pro, airpods max, airpods max, airpods, a magical connection to your devices., which airpods are right for you?, airpods 2nd generation, airpods 3rd generation, airpods pro  , airpods max  , apple footer, fast, free delivery, pay monthly at 0% apr, get help buying, make them yours, shop and learn, services, account, apple store, for business, for education, for healthcare, for government, apple values, about apple]airpods - apple[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, airpods 2nd generation, airpods 3rd generation, airpods pro, airpods max, compare, apple music, buy, learn more, buy, learn more, buy, learn more, buy, learn more, one-tap setup more about one-tap setup one-tap setup connect immediately to your iphone or ipad., automatic switching more about automatic switching automatic switching automatic switching allows sound to move seamlessly between your iphone, apple watch, ipad, mac, and apple tv.1, audio sharing more about audio sharing audio sharing share a song, podcast, or other audio between two sets of airpods with audio sharing.2, always-on siri hey siri, play some workout music more about always-on siri always-on siri a simple “hey siri” summons your favorite personal assistant. control your music, calls, volume, directions, and more — without lifting a finger., announce notifications skyler said: “heading to the store. need anything?” more about announce notifications announce notifications siri can read your important messages or alerts as they arrive — unless you're on a call or listening to music. you can even reply to messages without opening your device.3, , , buy, learn more, buy, learn more, view in ar, buy, learn more, view in ar, buy, learn more, view in ar, * new subscribers only. $9.99/month after trial. offer available for a limited time to new subscribers who connect an eligible device to an apple device running ios 15 or ipados 15 or later. offer good for 3 months after eligible device pairing. no audio product purchase necessary for current owners of eligible devices. plan automatically renews until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., works with airpods max, airpods pro, airpods (2nd generation), airpods (3rd generation), powerbeats, powerbeats pro, and beats solo pro. requires an icloud account, and iphone or ipod with the latest version of ios; ipad with the latest version of ipados; mac with the latest version of macos; or apple tv 4k with the latest version of tvos., works with iphone 8 or later and ipod touch (7th generation) with the latest version of ios; 12.9-inch ipad pro (2nd generation or later), 11-inch ipad pro, 10.5-inch ipad pro, ipad (5th generation or later), ipad air (3rd generation or later), and ipad mini (5th generation or later) with the latest version of ipados; and apple tv 4k with the latest version of tvos., siri may not be available in all languages or in all areas, and features may vary by area. internet access required. cellular data charges may apply., spatialize stereo supports stereo content with ios 15 or later, apple music with dolby atmos or 5.1, and video content recorded in 5.1, 7.1, and dolby atmos from supported applications., airpods (3rd generation) and airpods pro are sweat and water resistant for non-water sports and exercise. airpods (3rd generation) and airpods pro were tested under controlled laboratory conditions, and have a rating of ipx4 under iec standard 60529. sweat and water resistance are not permanent conditions and resistance might decrease as a result of normal wear. do not attempt to charge wet airpods (3rd generation) and airpods pro; refer to https://support.apple.com/kb/ht210711 for cleaning and drying instructions. the wireless charging case and magsafe charging case for airpods pro are not sweat or water resistant., magsafe charging requires a compatible magsafe charger. wireless charging requires a qi-certified wireless charger., battery life varies by use and configuration. see apple.com/batteries for details., † apple card monthly installments (acmi) is a 0% apr payment option available to select at checkout for certain apple products purchased at apple store locations, apple.com, the apple store app, or by calling 1-800-my-apple, and is subject to credit approval and credit limit. see https://support.apple.com/kb/ht211204 for more information about eligible products. variable aprs for apple card other than acmi range from 11.24% to 22.24% based on creditworthiness. rates as of april 1, 2022. if you choose the pay-in-full or one-time-payment option for an acmi eligible purchase instead of choosing acmi as the payment option at checkout, that purchase will be subject to the variable apr assigned to your apple card. taxes and shipping are not included in acmi and are subject to your card’s variable apr. see the apple card customer agreement for more information. acmi is not available for purchases made online at the following special stores: apple employee purchase plan; participating corporate employee purchase programs; apple at work for small businesses; government, and veterans and military purchase programs, or on refurbished devices. iphone activation required on iphone purchases made at an apple store with one of these national carriers: at&t, sprint, verizon, or t-mobile., to access and use all the features of apple card, you must add apple card to wallet on an iphone or ipad with the latest version of ios or ipados. update to the latest version by going to settings > general > software update. tap download and install., available for qualifying applicants in the united states., apple card is issued by goldman sachs bank usa, salt lake city branch., airpods, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, ipod touch, airtag, accessories, gift cards, apple music, apple tv+, apple fitness+, apple news+, apple arcade, icloud, apple one, apple card, apple books, apple podcasts, app store, manage your apple id, apple store account, icloud.com, find a store, genius bar, today at apple, apple camp, apple store app, refurbished and clearance, financing, apple trade in, order status, shopping help, apple and business, shop for business, apple and education, shop for k-12, shop for college, apple in healthcare, health on apple watch, health records on iphone, shop for government, shop for veterans and military, accessibility, education, environment, inclusion and diversity, privacy, racial equity and justice, supplier responsibility, newsroom, apple leadership, career opportunities, investors, ethics & compliance, events, contact apple]