[get 3% daily cash back with apple card. and pay for your new mac over 12 months, interest‑free when you choose to check out with apple card monthly installments.* learn more, empower station., , buy, learn more, a sight to be bold., , buy, learn more, supercharged for pros., , buy, learn more, , learn more, view in ar, apple m1 chip, cpu, up to, gpu, up to 16gb unified memory, maximum configurable storage1, retina display2, up to 18 hours battery life3, 720p facetime hd camera, weight, touch id, , learn more, view in ar, apple m1 chip, cpu, gpu, up to 16gb unified memory, maximum configurable storage1, retina display2, up to 20 hours battery life4, 720p facetime hd camera, weight, touch bar and touch id, , learn more, view in ar, apple m1 pro chip or apple m1 max chip, up to, cpu, up to, gpu, up to 64gb unified memory, maximum configurable storage1, liquid retina xdr display2, up to 21 hours battery life5, 1080p facetime hd camera, weight, touch id, , learn more, view in ar, apple m1 chip, cpu, up to, gpu, up to 16gb unified memory, for increased performance and power efficiency, maximum configurable storage1, retina display6, 218 ppi, 1080p facetime hd camera, with the image signal processor of m1 for drastically improved performance, configurable with magic keyboard with touch id and numeric keypad, , learn more, view in ar, apple m1 chip, also available with intel core i5 or i7 processor, cpu, gpu7, up to 16gb unified memory8, for increased performance and power efficiency, maximum configurable storage1, —not available, —not available, —not available, , learn more, view in ar, apple m1 max chip or apple m1 ultra chip, up to, cpu, up to, gpu, up to 128gb unified memory, for increased performance and power efficiency, maximum configurable storage1, —not available, —not available, —not available, , learn more, view in ar, intel xeon w processor, up to, cpu, up to, radeon pro w6800x duo gpu, up to 1.5tb memory, maximum configurable storage1, —not available, —not available, magic keyboard with numeric keypad, and pay for your new mac over 12 months, interest‑free when you choose to check out with apple card monthly installments.*, shop, and free returns. see checkout for delivery dates., learn more about free delivery, you can pay over time when you choose to check out with apple card monthly installments.*, learn more about monthly installments, have a question? call a specialist or chat online. call 1‑800-my‑apple., contact us, powerful creativity and productivity tools live inside every mac — apps that help you explore, connect, and work more efficiently., safari has innovative features that let you enjoy more of the web. in even more ways. built-in privacy features help protect your information and keep your mac secure. an updated start page helps you easily and quickly save, find, and share your favorite sites. and siri suggestions surface bookmarks, links from your reading list, icloud tabs, links you receive in messages, and more., learn more about safari, keep your growing library organized and accessible. perfect your images and create beautiful gifts for sharing. and with icloud photos, you can store a lifetime’s worth of photos and videos in the cloud., learn more about photos, tell stories like never before. a simple design and intuitive editing features make it easy to create beautiful 4k movies and hollywood-style trailers., learn more about imovie, the easiest way to create great-sounding songs on your mac. with an intuitive interface and access to a complete sound library, it’s never been easier to learn, play, record, and share music like a pro., learn more about garageband, this powerful word processor gives you everything you need to create documents that look beautiful. and read beautifully. it lets you work seamlessly between mac, ios, and ipados devices. and work effortlessly with people who use microsoft word., learn more about pages, create sophisticated spreadsheets with dramatic interactive charts, tables, and images that paint a revealing picture of your data. work seamlessly between mac, ios, and ipados devices. and work effortlessly with people who use microsoft excel., learn more about numbers, bring your ideas to life with beautiful presentations. employ powerful tools and dazzling effects that keep your audience engaged. work seamlessly between mac, ios, and ipados devices. and work effortlessly with people who use microsoft powerpoint., learn more about keynote, for professionals ready to push their creativity, these industry-leading apps offer maximum control over editing, processing, and output of music and film., logic pro puts a complete recording and midi production studio on your mac, with everything you need to write, record, edit, and mix like never before. and with a huge collection of full-featured plug-ins along with thousands of sounds and loops, you’ll have everything you need to go from first inspiration to final master, no matter what kind of music you want to create., learn more about logic pro, take your mac to the stage with a full-screen interface optimized for live performance, flexible hardware control, and a massive collection of plug-ins and sounds that are fully compatible with logic pro., learn more about mainstage, built to meet the needs of today’s creative editors, final cut pro offers revolutionary video editing, powerful media organization, and incredible performance optimized for mac computers and macos monterey., learn more about final cut pro, motion is a powerful motion graphics tool that makes it easy to create cinematic 2d and 3d titles, fluid transitions, and realistic effects in real time., learn more about motion, add power and flexibility for exporting projects from final cut pro. customize output settings, work faster with distributed encoding, and easily package your film for the itunes store., learn more about compressor, the mac app store features rich editorial content and great apps for mac. explore the mac app store, bundle up to six apple services. and enjoy more for less., the safer way to make secure, contactless purchases in stores and online., for everything and everyone.][mac, new mac studio, new studio display, macbook pro, which mac is right for you?, macbook air, macbook pro 13”, macbook pro 14” and 16”, imac 24”, mac mini, mac studio, mac pro, get 3% daily cash  back with apple card., accessories, explore mac accessories., , apple trade in, get credit toward a new mac., just trade in your eligible computer for credit or recycle it for free. it’s good for you and the planet.9, free delivery, pay monthly at 0% apr, get help buying, what makes a mac a mac?, why mac, incredible power. incredibly simple., continuity, all your devices. one seamless experience., macos monterey, high powered meets “hi everyone.”, built-in apps, pro apps, get more out of mac, today at apple, virtual sessions, learn the basics of using mac live with apple creatives., apple one, apple tv plus, get 3 months of apple tv+ free when you buy a mac., apple pay, apple arcade, get 3 months of apple arcade free when you buy a mac., apple news plus, hundreds of magazines and leading newspapers. one subscription., apple gift card, apple at work, get the power to take your business to the next level., apple and education, empowering educators and students to move the world forward., update to the latest version of ios or macos to start your apple news+ free trial., upgrade to start your free trial., apple footer, shop and learn, services, account, apple store, for business, for education, for healthcare, for government, apple values, about apple]mac - apple[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, macbook air, macbook pro, imac 24”, mac mini, mac studio new, mac pro, comparemac models, displays new, accessoriesfor mac, monterey, shop mac, notebook, desktop, find your trade‑in value, safari, photos, imovie, garageband, pages, numbers, keynote, safari, photos, imovie, garageband, pages, numbers, keynote, logic pro, mainstage, final cut pro, motion, compressor, logic pro, mainstage, final cut pro, motion, compressor, sign up, try it free10, learn more, try it free11, learn moreabout apple tv plus, learn moreabout apple pay, try it free12, learn more, try it free13, learn moreabout apple news plus, learn moreabout apple gift card, buy, learn about apple at work, see why mac means business, learn about apple and education, get the latest ios, get the latest ipados, get the latest tvos, get the latest macos, * apple card monthly installments (acmi) is a 0% apr payment option available to select at checkout for certain apple products purchased at apple store locations, apple.com, the apple store app, or by calling 1-800-my-apple, and is subject to credit approval and credit limit. see https://support.apple.com/kb/ht211204 for more information about eligible products. variable aprs for apple card other than acmi range from 11.24% to 22.24% based on creditworthiness. rates as of april 1, 2022. if you choose the pay-in-full or one-time-payment option for an acmi eligible purchase instead of choosing acmi as the payment option at checkout, that purchase will be subject to the variable apr assigned to your apple card. taxes and shipping are not included in acmi and are subject to your card’s variable apr. see the apple card customer agreement for more information. acmi is not available for purchases made online at the following special stores: apple employee purchase plan; participating corporate employee purchase programs; apple at work for small businesses; government, and veterans and military purchase programs, or on refurbished devices. iphone activation required on iphone purchases made at an apple store with one of these national carriers: at&t, sprint, verizon, or t-mobile., 1tb = 1 trillion bytes; actual formatted capacity less., screen size is measured diagonally., testing conducted by apple in october 2020 using preproduction macbook air systems with apple m1 chip and 8-core gpu, configured with 8gb of ram and 512gb ssd. the apple tv app movie playback test measures battery life by playing back hd 1080p content with display brightness set to 8 clicks from bottom. battery life varies by use and configuration. see apple.com/batteries for more information., testing conducted by apple in october 2020 using preproduction 13-inch macbook pro systems with apple m1 chip, 8gb of ram, and 512gb ssd. the apple tv app movie playback test measures battery life by playing back hd 1080p content with display brightness set to 8 clicks from bottom. battery life varies by use and configuration. see apple.com/batteries for more information., testing conducted by apple in september 2021 using preproduction 14-inch macbook pro systems with apple m1 pro, 8-core cpu, 14-core gpu, 16gb of ram, and 512gb ssd; and preproduction 16-inch macbook pro systems with apple m1 pro, 10-core cpu, 16-core gpu, 16gb of ram, and 1tb ssd. the apple tv app movie playback test measures battery life by playing back hd 1080p content with display brightness set to 8 clicks from bottom. battery life varies by use and configuration. see apple.com/batteries for more information., actual diagonal screen size is 23.5 inches., intel-based model comes with intel uhd graphics 630., intel-based model is available with up to 64gb memory., trade-in values will vary based on the condition, year, and configuration of your eligible trade-in device. not all devices are eligible for credit. you must be at least 18 years old to be eligible to trade in for credit or for an apple gift card. trade-in value may be applied toward qualifying new device purchase, or added to an apple gift card. actual value awarded is based on receipt of a qualifying device matching the description provided when estimate was made. sales tax may be assessed on full value of a new device purchase. in-store trade-in requires presentation of a valid photo id (local law may require saving this information). offer may not be available in all stores, and may vary between in-store and online trade-in. some stores may have additional requirements. apple or its trade-in partners reserve the right to refuse or limit quantity of any trade-in transaction for any reason. more details are available from apple’s trade-in partner for trade-in and recycling of eligible devices. restrictions and limitations may apply., the apple one free trial includes only services that you are not currently using through a free trial or a subscription. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., $4.99/month after free trial. only one offer per apple id and only one offer per family if you’re part of a family sharing group, regardless of the number of devices you or your family purchases. this offer is not available if you or your family have previously accepted an apple tv+ one year free offer. offer good for 3 months after eligible device activation. plan automatically renews until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., $4.99/month after free trial. only one offer per apple id and only one offer per family if you’re part of a family sharing group, regardless of the number of devices you or your family purchases. offer good for 3 months after eligible device activation. plan automatically renews until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., new subscribers only. $9.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled., to access and use all the features of apple card, you must add apple card to wallet on an iphone or ipad with the latest version of ios or ipados. update to the latest version by going to settings > general > software update. tap download and install., available for qualifying applicants in the united states., apple card is issued by goldman sachs bank usa, salt lake city branch., mac, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, ipod touch, airtag, accessories, gift cards, apple music, apple tv+, apple fitness+, apple news+, apple arcade, icloud, apple one, apple card, apple books, apple podcasts, app store, manage your apple id, apple store account, icloud.com, find a store, genius bar, today at apple, apple camp, apple store app, refurbished and clearance, financing, apple trade in, order status, shopping help, apple and business, shop for business, apple and education, shop for k-12, shop for college, apple in healthcare, health on apple watch, health records on iphone, shop for government, shop for veterans and military, accessibility, education, environment, inclusion and diversity, privacy, racial equity and justice, supplier responsibility, newsroom, apple leadership, career opportunities, investors, ethics & compliance, events, contact apple]