[ovarian cancer is a form of cancer that affects about a quarter million women in the united states. in 2020, over 20,000 new cases of ovarian cancer are expected to be diagnosed and nearly 14,000 deaths will occur as a result of the disease. almost 80 percent of newly diagnosed cases are in advanced stage. because of this, diagnosis comes with many physical, spiritual, and emotional challenges. this guide will help you navigate life with ovarian cancer, whether you are making decisions for yourself or you are the loved one or caregiver of a person who has the disease., an ovarian cancer diagnosis may change every aspect of life, from choices you make about diet and exercise to treatment and intimacy. you may choose to make many decisions differently to accommodate living with the disease., when living with ovarian cancer, one should aim for a balanced diet, especially when undergoing chemotherapy. oftentimes when undergoing treatment, patients will experience nausea and discomfort. foods like eggs, nuts, or dairy products can provide extra calories and proteins to support nutrition. after treatment, good nutrition still remains vital. aim for a high volume of fruits and vegetables along with lean meats like chicken and fish for protein., cancer treatment can cause side effects such as fatigue, anxiety, and insomnia. exercise is an excellent method of offsetting some of these symptoms. if treatment is ongoing, patients should consult their oncologist and consult with them about an exercise plan. the american college of sports medicine and american cancer society recommend 150 minutes per week of cardiovascular exercise and two to three days per week of strength training., the covid-19 pandemic provides a unique and dangerous threat to people with cancer, as data suggests that patients living with cancer are at a heightened risk of contracting the virus and suffering severe consequences as a result of it. women who are currently undergoing active treatment for ovarian cancer, chemotherapy or any other targeted treatments affecting the immune system, are considered to be at a heightened risk. in addition to centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) guidelines surrounding social distancing and use of masks, women living with ovarian cancer should take every available precaution to avoid contracting the virus., in addition to medical treatment, there are a variety of complementary therapies available to people living with ovarian cancer. one option is the use of essential oils, which can help counter anxiety and depression, as well as alleviate the side effects of conventional treatment. other complementary supplements, such as turmeric and apple cider vinegar, have also been widely touted for their therapeutic effects by patients. these methods, however, lack support from scientific studies., related: 9 scientific benefits of following a plant-based diet, battling ovarian cancer requires a team of doctors and specialists. below are a number of specialists and medical professionals who work together to treat the disease and guide patients through the treatment process:, these oncologists specialize in diagnosing and treating cancer in female reproductive organs. if surgery is necessary, it is often these doctors who perform it. in some cases, they will also be the ones to lead treatment plans for ovarian cancer. in others, depending on how the institution practices, gynecological oncologists focus on surgery while medical oncologists make the treatment plan., in addition to a gynecologic oncologist, radiation oncologists are essential to delivering and overseeing radiation treatment. they are especially useful in cases of advanced ovarian cancer, where the cancer has spread out of the ovary to other parts of the body., a medical oncologist will oversee nonsurgical treatments for ovarian cancer, including immunotherapy and chemotherapy. medication may prolong life, help treat symptoms, and assist in improving quality of life., a nurse practitioner will help guide a patient through various treatment options and procedures while working closely with a doctor to diagnose and manage care., from individual counseling to support groups and referrals to related services, oncology social workers are trained to work with patients and their families and give them an ally to help them through the treatment process., a nutritionist will assist patients in navigating their diet in a way that can help maintain energy, reduce inflammation, and increase quality of life in the process of battling the disease. a nutritionist can also help design a diet that will accommodate potential loss of appetite due to treatments., related: complications of ovarian cancer: how does it affect your body in the short and long term?, living with ovarian cancer can be emotionally and psychologically challenging. these tips will allow you to better manage issues that may arise from a diagnosis of ovarian cancer and undergoing treatment., many patients living with ovarian cancer suffer from depression. accepting your feelings and seeking help, whether in the form of friends and family, treatment, support groups, or exercise, is the best way to cope., whether as a result of treatment or from the stress of diagnosis, patients living with ovarian cancer often struggle with anxiety. as is the case with depression, seeking help in treatment, friends and family, exercise, or support groups help alleviate and address symptoms. essential oils in particular are one form of complementary treatment that have been found to possibly have a positive effect on relaxing patients and alleviating anxiety. other complementary therapies may include meditation, massages, aromatherapy, and acupuncture., related: cancer news update: acupuncture helps cancer-related pain, thyroid cancer on the decline, and more, undergoing ovarian cancer can divert focus away from family, friendships, and partners, making some relationships more difficult, while in other cases strengthening relationships. being able to cope with a diagnosis and maintain relationships through treatment and beyond is vital to maintaining good mental health., a diagnosis of ovarian cancer may result in grief not only for a patient, but for close friends as well. under this pressure, a relationship may either strengthen or crumble. often, friends may retreat, not knowing what to say or how to properly cope. thus, communication is important for anyone who is a friend of someone living with ovarian cancer. similarly, if you are a patient, you should be open about your needs and feelings to help maintain strong relationships., any cancer diagnosis brings a massive strain to a romantic relationship. even couples who communicate well may have difficulties talking about it. listening to one another’s needs and feelings can help overcome some emotional obstacles, especially in the face of both financial and medical hardships. the american society of clinical oncology has compiled additional tips for spouses and partners on how to navigate life affected by cancer., in addition to potential fertility issues resulting from treatments like chemotherapy and related drugs, ovarian cancer, in particular, creates a major challenge for those planning to have children. ovarian cancer treatment may result in the removal of both ovaries, the fallopian tubes, and the uterus, making a natural pregnancy impossible. if caught early enough, treatment may only result in the removal of a single ovary, leaving another ovary intact. still, before undergoing treatment, it is important to discuss options with your partner and oncologist about adjusting treatment to preserve fertility, the impact of cancer on your desire for children, and options for fertility treatment., ovarian cancer and its treatment can cause low self-esteem and lack of confidence, which can make dating very hard. experts at the cleveland clinic advise people dating with cancer to be open and honest about their situation to alleviate the stress and anxiety that may come with the experience. additionally, support groups or a therapist may help you navigate the feelings that arise while dating., ovarian cancer can result in reduced sex drive, loss of self-esteem and confidence, and painful sex. as a result, a patient may want to consult their medical team to prepare themselves for bodily changes as well as how they can address them. a sexual health specialist can also help you through this aspect of your recovery., related: is there sex after ovarian cancer, medications used to treat ovarian cancer fall into several different categories:, living with ovarian cancer comes with many direct and indirect expenses., ovarian cancer usually requires three to six rounds of chemotherapy, each of which costs between $6,000 to $16,000. between chemotherapy, regular doctor’s visits, and surgery, total costs can amount to north of $200,000. some organizations, like needymeds, provide information on drug assistance programs and have their own drug discount cards, while others, such as patient access network foundation, offer copay assistance to people with cancer who have insurance but can’t afford out-of-pocket costs., balancing work and ovarian cancer presents a major challenge for many people. the initial decision is whether to continue working through treatment or take time off. this decision depends on expectations from your employer and your ability to take time off. it’s a good idea to consult with your healthcare team about your responsibilities at work and whether they believe you’ll be able to fulfill them., if you do work while undergoing treatment, consider the times at which you will need to take medication, for instance, to prevent the side effects of treatment from interfering with your ability to work. organizations such as cancer and careers also offer a variety of resources when trying to make decisions about working during treatment and returning to work after treatment., any woman who is living with late-stage ovarian cancer is eligible for disability benefits provided by the social security administration's compassionate allowances. in particular, the service is open to those who have worked long enough and paid taxes, but who can no longer meet the demands of their jobs due to their illness. while it’s not a simple process to apply, the program may provide a safety net., clinical trials allow researchers to use human volunteers to evaluate new ways to prevent, detect, or treat disease., the website clinicaltrials.gov, maintained by the national library of medicine at the national institutes of health, is a searchable database of studies taking place in 50 states and over 200 countries; these include cancer studies supported by the nci as well as those sponsored by pharmaceutical and biotech companies. the ovarian cancer research alliance also has a clinical trials finder guide on their site., people participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons. those with cancer may do it to receive novel treatments not yet available to the general public as well as to help move science forward and help other people. there are potential risks, though. for instance, as the acs points out, researchers may not always know the side effects of an experimental treatment., while surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy remain key aspects of treating ovarian cancer, researchers have made breakthroughs that are innovating treatment for certain types of disease., the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) has approved lynparza (olaparib) in combination with avastin for first-line maintenance therapy in certain women with advanced ovarian cancer. additionally, the fda has also approved zejula (niraprib) as a first-line maintenance therapy for some women with advanced ovarian cancer. both belong to a category of drugs known as parp inhibitors that assist in the treatment of ovarian cancer in women who carry a brca mutation., related: parp inhibitor improves odds for women with ovarian cancer and more cancer news from asco’s virtual annual meeting, each september is designated as ovarian cancer awareness month, and is filled with events dedicated to spreading awareness regarding the disease and promoting screening for it. additionally, may is women’s health month, during which many within the ovarian cancer community seek to support each other and spread awareness about the disease., if you are living with ovarian cancer, there are many resources that can help, whether you’d like to educate yourself about the disease, participate in an online community, or download an app to help you organize your medical schedule. everyday health has compiled a roundup of the best resources available for ovarian cancer which can help you navigate all these various options to help you find resources and services that best suit you., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., pain from ovarian cancer can be subtle or extensive, but there are pain management strategies that can help., it’s important to know your ovarian cancer risk when family planning and how a prior diagnosis can affect fertility., effective ovarian cancer treatment requires a cooperative approach. learn about the key healthcare providers who should be on your team., whether you’re in the middle of treatment for ovarian cancer or trying to get your strength back after you’ve completed it, a yoga routine may be just..., new treatments for advanced ovarian cancer are helping some women defy the odds. here’s how one 78-year-old and her doctors have kept hope alive for a..., a pelvic exam is usually the first step, followed by blood tests, imaging tests, and surgery., treated at its earliest stage, ovarian cancer has a high survival rate. but women and their doctors often fail to recognize the symptoms, leading to missed..., does using talcum powder raise your risk of ovarian cancer? does having a hysterectomy mean you can’t get the disease? here, an faq., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][your everyday guide to living well with ovarian cancer, managing daily life and complications of ovarian cancer, diet for ovarian cancer, exercising with ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer and coronavirus, complementary and alternative medicine for ovarian cancer, finding doctors for ovarian cancer, gynecologic oncologist, radiation oncologist, medical oncologist, nurse practitioner, oncology social workers, nutritionist, your mental health and ovarian cancer, managing depression and ovarian cancer, managing anxiety and ovarian cancer, how ovarian cancer can affect your relationships, your friendships and ovarian cancer, your romantic relationships and ovarian cancer, family planning with ovarian cancer, dating with ovarian cancer, sex life with ovarian cancer, drugs and medication for ovarian cancer, money matters: the cost of living with ovarian cancer, medication prices for ovarian cancer, managing your work life with ovarian cancer, can you apply for disability if you have ovarian cancer?, clinical trials for ovarian cancer, how to find a clinical trial, what to consider before joining a clinical trial, latest news and research on ovarian cancer, news and research on ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer awareness month is in september, editor’s picks: best of roundups, the latest in ovarian cancer, finding a cancer diagnosis and coping with infertility, ovarian cancer pain: what it feels like, what causes it, and how women manage it, ovarian cancer and pregnancy: what you need to know, meet your ovarian cancer healthcare team, yoga for ovarian cancer: poses that benefit your health during and after treatment, ovarian cancer awareness month: september 2020, ovarian cancer survivor stories, ovarian cancer: how is ovarian cancer diagnosed?, with ovarian cancer, early detection is key. why is it so hard?, 6 common questions about ovarian cancer, answered, biden relaunches cancer moonshot program with pledge to “end cancer as we know it’, what is colon and rectal cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, breast cancer resources: where do you turn when you need help?]ovarian cancer: your everyday guide to living well with the condition | everyday health[diet for ovarian cancer, exercising with ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer and coronavirus, complementary and alternative medicine for ovarian cancer, related:, 9 scientific benefits of following a plant-based diet, gynecologic oncologist, radiation oncologist, medical oncologist, nurse practitioner, oncology social workers, nutritionist, related:, complications of ovarian cancer: how does it affect your body in the short and long term?, managing depression and ovarian cancer, managing anxiety and ovarian cancer, related:, cancer news update: acupuncture helps cancer-related pain, thyroid cancer on the decline, and more, your friendships and ovarian cancer, your romantic relationships and ovarian cancer, family planning with ovarian cancer, dating with ovarian cancer, sex life with ovarian cancer, related:, is there sex after ovarian cancer, chemotherapy, immunotherapy, targeted therapy, hormone therapy, medication prices for ovarian cancer, managing your work life with ovarian cancer, can you apply for disability if you have ovarian cancer?, how to find a clinical trial, what to consider before joining a clinical trial, news and research on ovarian cancer, related:, parp inhibitor improves odds for women with ovarian cancer and more cancer news from asco’s virtual annual meeting, ovarian cancer awareness month is in september][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, gynecologic oncologist, radiation oncologist, medical oncologist, nurse practitioner, oncology social workers, nutritionist, chemotherapy chemotherapy consists of combinations of drugs that interfere with the machinery of cancer cells., immunotherapy these therapies boost the patient’s immune system’s ability to help fight the disease., targeted therapy targeted therapy uses drugs to interact with specific cellular targets in order to interfere with the replication and basic function of cells. so far, one targeted therapy drug, avastin (bevacizumab), has been approved for use in ovarian cancer., hormone therapy hormone therapy utilizes hormones or hormone-blocking drugs to cut off hormones that fuel cancer growth., about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]