[some famous women who have battled ovarian cancer have used their influence to draw attention to the disease., celebrity news always catches our attention, whether it’s a new romance, a break-up, family drama, or a tussle with the paparazzi. however, there are times when celebrity news can actually be used for more than clickbait. one example: raising awareness of certain diseases., celebrities like comedian gilda radner, actress kathy bates, and civil rights activist coretta scott king have all had ovarian cancer. when radner and king died, the headlines were everywhere, making people more aware of the disease and its symptoms., that was a good thing for a number of reasons. for one, because ovarian cancer only accounts for 3 percent of all cancers and ranks fifth among cancer deaths in women, it doesn’t garner the attention that breast cancer does., for another, their diagnoses raised awareness about the often vague symptoms of ovarian cancer, such as bloating, pelvic pain, and irregular periods. because these symptoms can be caused by many things, they can be confused with a wide variety of other ailments, and 80 percent of cases are diagnosed at later stages, when treatment is less likely to be successful., awareness and education are crucial so that women can try to be more in tune with their bodies and, when something doesn’t seem quite right, get medical attention in a timely manner. and education is where celebrities play a vital role. thus, many celebrities who have either lived with or been affected by ovarian cancer have dedicated themselves to spreading awareness about the disease and helping those affected., related: is there sex after ovarian cancer?, saturday night live cast member gilda radner went through about 10 months of testing and several misdiagnoses before she was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 1986. she detailed her experiences with infertility, chemotherapy, and ovarian cancer in her memoir it’s always something shortly before she died in 1989. in her memory, her husband established gilda’s club in 1991, an organization dedicated to providing emotional and social support to cancer patients as well as their friends and family. gilda’s club has since merged with the wellness community to form the cancer support community the country’s largest cancer support network. through these channels, radner has left a legacy impacting tens of thousands of people living with cancer and their families., related: is it ovarian cancer or ibs?, a two-time gold medalist in the 1996 atlanta olympics, shannon miller was diagnosed with germ cell ovarian cancer in 2011, at age 33. she persevered through nine weeks of chemotherapy. as a survivor today, she has recounted her struggles with treatment as it related to her fertility and family planning, as well as her hardships while undergoing chemotherapy. she travels the country sharing her cancer story while encouraging women to take care of themselves., related: ovarian cancer: myths vs. facts, at age 25, the avengers and stumptown actress cobie smulders was diagnosed with ovarian cancer. she kept her diagnosis private for years, but she opened up about her cancer in 2015, sharing the difficulties she had managing her work life as an actress while detailing her hardships accompanying treatment. today, she is in remission and speaks out about the need for women to be proactive about their health., related: can essential oils benefit women with ovarian cancer?, in 2006, civil rights leader and widow of martin luther king jr., coretta scott king, died due to complications from ovarian cancer. after her husband’s assassination in 1968, scott king picked up his mantle as a leader of the civil rights movement, working not only toward civil rights in the united states, but also toward ending apartheid in south africa, world peace, and lgbt equality. up until her final month, king continued to speak at memorials and events celebrating the u.s. civil rights movement despite health problems that included a stroke and a heart attack., related: 6 common questions about ovarian cancer, answered, since being diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2003, actress kathy bates has worked to raise awareness about the disease. while she originally kept the information private, she has since developed a 30-second public service announcement alongside the ovarian cancer national alliance and a youtube video detailing her journey through treatment and beyond., related: does apple cider vinegar help, prevent, or treat ovarian cancer?, rosa delauro was diagnosed with stage 1 ovarian cancer in 1986, and arrived in congress as a member of the house of representatives for connecticut in 1991, where she has fought for funding for cancer research. as a founding member of the congressional progressive caucus, she has made women’s health a paramount issue, introducing bills to improve cancer treatment and research alongside women’s health policies., related: parp inhibitor improves odds for women with ovarian cancer and more cancer news from asco’s virtual annual meeting, ten days after having a cyst removed from her abdomen, motown: the musical star valisia lekae was diagnosed with ovarian cancer at age 34. despite the diagnosis, lekae remained strong and positive. she was named spokesperson for the national ovarian cancer coalition just three months after her diagnosis in february 2014. as a young african american woman, she has dedicated herself to educating young women, and especially women of color, about ovarian cancer and its risks., related: large study finds no link between use of talcum powder in genital area and ovarian cancer, by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][what celebrities have had ovarian cancer?, actresses cobie smulders, valisia lekae, and kathy bates have all used their celebrity to raise awareness about ovarian cancer., comedian and actress gilda radner pioneered the awareness campaign for ovarian cancer, seven-time olympic medalist gymnast shannon miller shares details of her bout with ovarian cancer, 'how i met your mother' star cobie smulders opens up about ovarian cancer diagnosis, civil rights icon coretta scott king succumbed to ovarian cancer at age 78, academy award–winning actress kathy bates encourages vigilance in the face of ovarian cancer, congresswoman rosa delauro celebrates 34th year as an ovarian cancer survivor, broadway star valisia lekae speaks out in support of ovarian cancer warriors]famous celebrities and people with ovarian cancer | everyday health[related:, is there sex after ovarian cancer?, related:, is it ovarian cancer or ibs?, related:, ovarian cancer: myths vs. facts, related:, can essential oils benefit women with ovarian cancer?, related:, 6 common questions about ovarian cancer, answered, related:, does apple cider vinegar help, prevent, or treat ovarian cancer?, related:, parp inhibitor improves odds for women with ovarian cancer and more cancer news from asco’s virtual annual meeting, related:, large study finds no link between use of talcum powder in genital area and ovarian cancer][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]