[as humans, we’re hardwired for connection. belonging to a community makes us feel safe and helps us thrive. but so often, living with chronic migraine can make you feel physically and emotionally isolated. not only can it be hard to do things you loved before your diagnosis, but it can also feel like no one understands what it’s like. until now. our mission is to cultivate a space powered by the migraine community and empowered by each other. from one-to-one chats to conversation forums, we make connecting easy. this is a safe place to find and receive advice, to seek and offer support, and to discover the authentic stories of members, just like you. bezzy migraine is a free online platform bringing new meaning to the word “community.” our aim is to create an experience where: - everyone feels seen, valued, and understood - everyone’s story matters - shared vulnerability is the name of the game bezzy migraine is a place where you are more than your migraine. it’s a place where, finally, you belong. how it works social-first content like all of your favorite social networks, we’ve designed an activity feed to connect you with other members living with chronic migraine. we pride ourselves on making bezzy migraine a safe and secure space where you can join live discussions, connect one-to-one, and read the latest articles and personal stories. live chats need to vent? get advice? share what’s on your mind? hop into a daily live chat to join the conversation. they’re often led by our amazing community guide, but you can also expect to chat with other advocates and experts, too. forums from treatments to symptoms to daily living, chronic migraine changes everything. whatever you're feeling on any given day, there's a forum where you can connect and share directly with others. 1:1 messaging let us connect you with a new member from our community every day. we’ll recommend members to you based on your treatment plan, lifestyle interests, and needs. browse member profiles and request to connect with anyone from our community with members listed as “online now.” discover articles and stories we believe that shared experiences empower the kind of belonging that can help people not only survive—but thrive—with migraine. our stories offer perspectives and tips from people who know what it’s like. get handpicked wellness and member stories delivered to you each week. connect safely anytime, anywhere we take thoughtful steps to build safety, security, and privacy into our platform and foster an environment where members feel safe sharing their personal experiences. check and send messages, see who’s online, and get notified when a new message comes in—so you’ll never miss a thing. about healthline healthline media is the top ranked health publisher and number 44 on comscore’s top 100 property rankings. across all of its properties, healthline media each month publishes up to 1,000 scientifically accurate yet reader-friendly articles authored by more than 120 writers and reviewed by more than 100 doctors, clinicians, nutritionists, and other experts. the company’s repository contains more than 70,000 articles, each updated with current protocol. more than 200 million people worldwide and 86 million people in the u.s. visit healthline’s sites each month, according to google analytics and comscore, respectively., version 8.2.3, we’re always making strides to ensure bezzy migraine is the best version of itself. this update includes: - small updates and bug fixes: optimizations to help improve your experience, 381 ratings, this is the first time i’ve ever found such a wealth of useful information in such an accessible form. it is at an intelligent level that is never condescending nor boring. i am also very impressed with the moderators. the articles are very up to date. i’ve tried several other apps and this is the only one that i use., my migraines were daily and just wanted to lie in bed all day everyday. i downloaded this app out of desperation and i found a community that understood and i have not looked back since. the different parts of the app are invaluable. live discussions are the best! if you are a migraine sufferer this app will help you, i promise., this is like all of my favorite social media apps (ig, bumble) & all my favorite resources for articles/research in one app specifically for the migraine community. when you live with migraine there aren’t many “wins” but this feels like a major win for the migraine community! finally an actually supportive support group for people with migraine. 💜, thanks for your feedback! we love to hear this., the developer, healthline media, inc, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be used to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies:, the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, bezzy ms, bezzy breast cancer, bezzy ibd, bezzy t2d, bezzy ra, bezzy psa, headachetrackr, headapp migraine diary, migraine monitor, weatherx forecast, migraine insight: tracker, migraine coach][bezzy migraine 17+, social community chat support, healthline media, inc, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, the most informative and helpful source of information about migraines ever, this is the know it all migraine app!, obsessed with this app!, developer response ,, app privacy, data used to track you, data not linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎bezzy migraine on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.8 • 381 ratings, 4.8 • 381 ratings, free, free, iphone, ipad, , , , , , contact info, identifiers, usage data, health & fitness, location, contact info, user content, search history, identifiers, usage data, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]