[as humans, we’re hardwired for connection. belonging to a community makes us feel safe and helps us thrive. but so often, living with multiple sclerosis (ms) can make you feel physically and emotionally isolated. not only can it be hard to do things you loved before your diagnosis, but it can also feel like no one understands what it’s like. until now. our mission is to cultivate a space powered by the ms community and empowered by each other. from one-to-one chats to conversation forums, we make connecting easy. this is a safe place to find and receive advice, to seek and offer support, and to discover the authentic stories of members, just like you. bezzy ms is a free online platform bringing new meaning to the word “community.” our aim is to create an experience where: - everyone feels seen, valued, and understood - everyone’s story matters - shared vulnerability is the name of the game bezzy ms is a place where you are more than your ms. it’s a place where, finally, you belong. how it works social-first content like all of your favorite social networks, we’ve designed an activity feed to connect you with other members living with multiple sclerosis. we pride ourselves on making bezzy ms a safe and secure space where you can join live discussions, connect one-to-one, and read the latest articles and personal stories. live chats need to vent? get advice? share what’s on your mind? hop into a daily live chat to join the conversation. they’re often led by our amazing community guide, but you can also expect to chat with other advocates and experts, too. forums from treatments to symptoms to daily living, ms changes everything. whatever you're feeling on any given day, there's a forum where you can connect and share directly with others. 1:1 messaging let us connect you with a new member from our community every day. we’ll recommend members to you based on your treatment plan, lifestyle interests, and needs. browse member profiles and request to connect with anyone from our community with members listed as “online now.” discover articles and stories we believe that shared experiences empower the kind of belonging that can help people not only survive—but thrive—with ms. our stories offer perspectives and tips from people who know what it’s like. get handpicked wellness and member stories delivered to you each week. connect safely anytime, anywhere we take thoughtful steps to build safety, security, and privacy into our platform and foster an environment where members feel safe sharing their personal experiences. check and send messages, see who’s online, and get notified when a new message comes in—so you’ll never miss a thing. about healthline healthline media is the top ranked health publisher and number 44 on comscore’s top 100 property rankings. across all of its properties, healthline media each month publishes up to 1,000 scientifically accurate yet reader-friendly articles authored by more than 120 writers and reviewed by more than 100 doctors, clinicians, nutritionists, and other experts. the company’s repository contains more than 70,000 articles, each updated with current protocol. more than 200 million people worldwide and 86 million people in the u.s. visit healthline’s sites each month, according to google analytics and comscore, respectively., version 8.2.3, we’re always making strides to ensure bezzy ms is the best version of itself. this update includes: - small updates and bug fixes: optimizations to help improve your experience, 1.6k ratings, i started using ms buddy in october after a bad relapse left me struggling to walk, increased numbness in extremities, and really bad ms hug. it gave me a community of support that i never had before. i have had multiple sclerosis for 15 years and until this year i had only met/ talked to a handful of others with ms. i found people to talk with and it has been a boon to me in dealing with this disease and my relapse. i’m an ambassador for ms buddy now and being able to help others dealing with this disease has renewed my purpose. i still struggle with ms, but my outlook has improved dramatically, which makes dealing with this disease easier, physiologically and emotionally. thank you ms buddy! 🧡🙏🏼😊, this app is good and well worth downloading because there are so many of us that are in the same boat and need someone to lean on and talk to. it’s a great app but now it’s glitchy to where it takes me to sign in and then when i try i have to tap on the app again after it closes and then it takes me right to where my buddies are and messages with no problems. it was acting fine before the update and now it’s just too glitchy but i’ll keep using it hope the issues will get taken care of and soon. so for that reason i say it’s about a three overall a five, hi :) thank you so much for using the app and for your feedback! we are sorry to hear that logging into the app is causing you trouble. please do let us know if you are still having this issue by contacting us at app-feedback@healthline.com - ms buddy engineering team, the very first ms buddy to reach out to me scared me senseless. she called me “idiotic” because the night before, i asked if i was speaking to a robot or a human being. a lot of these apps do use robots and i was so glad to find ms buddy with their real humans... until their real humanity leaked all over the place. now it’s a mess. i’m very hesitant to return to the app. if i see this terrible user, i’ll have a deteriorating meltdown. i forgot, i even apologized for the robot question before noon today upon being convinced these really were people. but at 5:30, this user called me “idiotic” for, i’m guessing, asking questions so that we know if we are getting real support from real people at a time when we need it...badly. i did t download this app because i was bored. but i will delete this app because there is no protection from abusive users. not my cup of tea. and i still have ms! this is the worst week ever!, hi junglista79. i'm sorry to hear that you had such a negative experience. in ms buddy, you can report other members for inappropriate or unwelcome behavior. to do this, click on the 3 dots in the upper righthand corner of the screen where you're messaging with that member. we'll look at the report and warn the user. in addition, this will block them from being able to communicate with you and delete your conversation with them. if you would like to discuss more, please email us at app-feedback@healthline.com. we strive to build a safe environment for everyone., the developer, healthline media, inc, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be used to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies:, the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, bezzy breast cancer, bezzy ibd, bezzy migraine, bezzy t2d, bezzy ra, bezzy psa, pre-meet: multiple sclerosis, aby, copaxone itracker® 2.0, realtalk ms, belongms - multiple sclerosis, myvumerity][bezzy ms 17+, multiple sclerosis support app, healthline media, inc, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, ms buddy has given me a community, not feeling alone, developer response ,, ms buddy, developer response ,, app privacy, data used to track you, data not linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎bezzy ms on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.7 • 1.6k ratings, 4.7 • 1.6k ratings, free, free, iphone, ipad, , , , , , contact info, identifiers, usage data, health & fitness, location, contact info, user content, search history, identifiers, usage data, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]