[as humans, we’re hardwired for connection. belonging to a community makes us feel safe and helps us thrive. but so often, living with inflammatory bowel disease (ibd) can make you feel physically and emotionally isolated. not only can it be hard to do things you loved before your diagnosis, but it can also feel like no one understands what it’s like. until now. our mission is to cultivate a space powered by the ibd community and empowered by each other. from one-to-one chats to conversation forums, we make connecting easy. this is a safe place to find and receive advice, to seek and offer support, and to discover the authentic stories of members, just like you. bezzy ibd is a free online platform bringing new meaning to the word “community.” our aim is to create an experience where: - everyone feels seen, valued, and understood - everyone’s story matters - shared vulnerability is the name of the game bezzy ibd is a place where you are more than your ibd. it’s a place where, finally, you belong. how it works social-first content like all of your favorite social networks, we’ve designed an activity feed to connect you with other members living with ibd. we pride ourselves on making bezzy ibd a safe and secure space where you can join live discussions, connect one-to-one, and read the latest articles and personal stories. live chats need to vent? get advice? share what’s on your mind? hop into a daily live chat to join the conversation. they’re often led by our amazing community guide, but you can also expect to chat with other advocates and experts, too. forums from treatments to symptoms to daily living, ibd changes everything. whatever you're feeling on any given day, there's a forum where you can connect and share directly with others. 1:1 messaging let us connect you with a new member from our community every day. we’ll recommend members to you based on your treatment plan, lifestyle interests, and needs. browse member profiles and request to connect with anyone from our community with members listed as “online now.” discover articles and stories we believe that shared experiences empower the kind of belonging that can help people not only survive—but thrive—with ibd. our stories offer perspectives and tips from people who know what it’s like. get handpicked wellness and member stories delivered to you each week. connect safely anytime, anywhere we take thoughtful steps to build safety, security, and privacy into our platform and foster an environment where members feel safe sharing their personal experiences. check and send messages, see who’s online, and get notified when a new message comes in—so you’ll never miss a thing. about healthline healthline media is the top ranked health publisher and number 44 on comscore’s top 100 property rankings. across all of its properties, healthline media each month publishes up to 1,000 scientifically accurate yet reader-friendly articles authored by more than 120 writers and reviewed by more than 100 doctors, clinicians, nutritionists, and other experts. the company’s repository contains more than 70,000 articles, each updated with current protocol. more than 200 million people worldwide and 86 million people in the u.s. visit healthline’s sites each month, according to google analytics and comscore, respectively., version 8.2.3, we’re always making strides to ensure bezzy ibd is the best version of itself. this update includes: - small updates and bug fixes: optimizations to help improve your experience, 550 ratings, i’ve had crohn’s for over a decade and have never seen an app or any product like ibd healthline before. i love that it is a private and safe place to ask others who have gone through the same situations i have for their opinions and advice. whether i just want to connect with people my age or ask a specific question, i can do it all in the app. i’m really proud to be a part of the ibd healthline community!, this app has everything i needed in a support group that got me through my tough times. i truly believe the support i got on ibd healthline played a role in my recovery. it is nice to be able to ask and answer questions and talk with others about their experience. people that can relate! i would recommend this app to anyone struggling with ibd., i have lymphocytic colitis which if your googling it you can see there isn’t a lot of info for it. or how to live with that type of ibd. one day i stumbled across this app which since it helps me everyday. i learn new stuff to help me get through the day., hi! thanks for your feedback! we love to hear that you're getting value from the community., the developer, healthline media, inc, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be used to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies:, the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, bezzy ms, bezzy breast cancer, bezzy migraine, bezzy t2d, bezzy ra, bezzy psa, complete - medication tracker, cara care: ibs, fodmap tracker, ibd manager from aga, fast fodmap lookup & learn, bowelle - the ibs tracker, modulife][bezzy ibd 17+, colitis and crohn’s support, healthline media, inc, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, unique app for ibd!, beyond helpful, finally i don’t feel so alone, developer response ,, app privacy, data used to track you, data not linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎bezzy ibd on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.7 • 550 ratings, 4.7 • 550 ratings, free, free, iphone, ipad, , , , , , contact info, identifiers, usage data, health & fitness, location, contact info, user content, search history, identifiers, usage data, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]