[from diagnosis to everyday life, these podcast hosts just get it., breast cancer is the second most common cancer among women, but 2,300 cases are diagnosed in men each year. women are about 100 times more likely to be diagnosed with breast cancer and account for 255,000 cases in the united states annually, according to the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc)., another 94,000 cases of gynecological cancers — which include cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, uterine cancer, vaginal cancer, and vulvar cancer — are diagnosed every year, according to the cdc. since cervical cancer is the only gynecological cancer that can be detected through routine screening, it’s extremely important to know the signs and symptoms, and to advocate for yourself at the doctor’s office., cancer podcasts hosted by doctors and medical organizations can be really helpful sources of information, but if you’ve been diagnosed with breast or gynecological cancer, sometimes you just need to level with someone who has been impacted by cancer and understands the nuances., these hosts have been through it and aren’t afraid to talk about the tough stuff — and neither are their guests., when she was just 25 years old, tamika felder was diagnosed with cervical cancer. she faced chemotherapy and radiation and surgery to remove her cervix and uterus, along with unsupportive judgment some people showed toward her cancer diagnosis, which was linked to a sexually transmitted infection (sti)., felder founded cervivor, a global community of patient advocates who organize to increase access to education about cervical cancer, influence decision-makers, and create change in an effort to end cervical cancer. felder also hosts the organization’s monthly podcast., “this podcast was started out of a need to share our stories. not only because of the stigma of hpv that is associated with cervical cancer, but for those who think cervical cancer is an easy cancer,” felder says., according to the cdc, 90 percent of cervical cancer is caused by the human papillomavirus (hpv), and nearly all cervical cancer can be prevented by the hpv vaccination. a combination of the vaccine and screenings make cervical cancer one of the most preventable types of cancer — but not everyone knows this. felder hopes that by creating a network of advocates around the world, cervivor will be able to help people understand how they can prevent and even eliminate cervical cancer., the cervivor podcast is for cancer thrivers, clinicians, and even people who haven’t been impacted by the disease., “for patients, i hope they feel supported and seen. for clinicians, i hope that it helps them better serve patients. for the general audience, i hope it spreads awareness and leads to understanding and empathy, as well as increased hpv vaccinations and cervical cancer screenings,” says felder., the archives are filled with the kind information people with a cervical cancer diagnosis may not even be aware they need. the first episode, “dry panties, depends, and urine. what does this have to do with cervical cancer?!” is a great example. but where the podcast really shines is with its thriver stories., “there is considerable loss and trauma with any chronic illness. with cervical cancer some of the top issues are sexual dysfunction and loss of fertility. that plays not only into the physical issues of a cervical cancer diagnosis, but the emotional well-being of patients as well. sharing these stories via the podcast provides an additional layer of community, support, and resource sharing,” says felder. “it's a reminder that you are not alone.”, where to start felder recommends season 1 episode 5: “acceptance of death: how she is making her story matter, with guest lisa moore.” “what seems like a difficult episode to listen to is truly empowering and inspirational,” she says., moore recorded the interview four months before cervical cancer took her life., “she knew she was dying. there was no miracle happening, and she had accepted that. to this day i am still in awe of her vulnerability. she didn't have to share in that way, but she wanted to. she wanted people to know what cervical cancer had not only done to her but taken away from her,” says felder., in a video, moore, who was diagnosed with cervical cancer at age 26, tells cervivor, “if i can help someone else from going through this, that’s the best i have to offer.”, carrie madrid was divorced and raising three children when she was diagnosed with stage 3 breast cancer in 2012. she was able to fit in treatment appointments between working from home and being a mother, but relied heavily on her credit cards to make ends meet., it was then that she understood the shortcomings of the cancer resources offered in her area. while people could access vouchers for prostheses and wigs, there weren’t any funds that helped with the day-to-day expenses that racked up. she spoke with other people going through cancer treatment and found that some people had to choose between copays and groceries., a year after her diagnosis, madrid founded the care project, inc. with her close friend and post-surgery caregiver christina gonzalez. in addition to raising funds to help people diagnosed with breast cancer pay for things like utilities, rent, and copays, the care project started a survivor social club, which led to a podcast., “i would post on social media about the topics we talk about in the survivor social club that others usually do not, and would receive comments like: ‘thank you for saying what i'm thinking!’ or ‘say it louder, so my friends and family can hear!’” says madrid., she wanted to expand these conversations so she could make others feel heard, inspired, and educated on the cancer topics that don’t always take center stage. as host of handle with care: cancer & beyond, madrid isn’t afraid to dive headfirst into topics that can be difficult to bring up, including body changes, sexual dysfunction, hormonal changes, and dating after cancer. “the list goes on,” she says., other aims of her episodes are to “degenderize breast cancer specifically and shed light on the mental health aspect of cancer,” says madrid., a cancer diagnosis can be traumatic on its own, and grueling treatments can have a lasting impact on mental health. a study published in july 2020, in the journal translational psychology found that more than 23 percent of people who had cancer experienced depression, 18 percent had anxiety, and nearly 10 percent had post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd)., where to start handle with care: breast cancer & beyond has a lot of great content about male breast cancer, which is often left out of the overall breast cancer conversation. in the third episode of the whining with care series, madrid sits down with three men who survived breast cancer. there’s also a heart-wrenching episode from a caregiver’s perspective., “one of my favorite episodes is with tammy porter, who lost her husband to male breast cancer. she shares their extremely difficult experience with mike's breast cancer and she continues to be an advocate with our friends at the male breast cancer coalition,” says madrid., at 32 years old, alex massey was told she would never get to experience being pregnant. she had been diagnosed with stage 1 endometrial cancer. the recommended treatment was a total hysterectomy., “it was a devastating surgery for someone who had always looked forward to carrying and giving birth to a baby,” massey says., endometrial cancer is the most common type of uterine cancer, and uterine cancer is one of the few types of cancers that’s actually on the rise in the united states. according to the cdc, uterine cancer cases rose by 0.7 percent year over year from 1995 to 2015, and deaths climbed by 1 percent every year. black women are twice as likely to be diagnosed with uterine cancer in their lifetimes. but regular screening can catch the cancer early, when it’s treatable, and knowing the signs and symptoms increases the chances uterine cancer will be detected early., “i had several very common endometrial cancer symptoms prior to diagnosis and they were all dismissed for an array of reasons, including my weight and family history,” says massey., more than anything, she recalls being shocked by her diagnosis., “my cancer journey completely interrupted and changed the trajectory of my life. not that you can ever be prepared for such news, but i felt especially shocked because none of my doctors had ever discussed symptoms or risk factors for endometrial cancer with me,” says massey. “i had no idea what signs to look for or that endometrial cancer was even a possibility. in fact, i was actually told by a gynecologist that i was too young to get this type of cancer.”, massey parlayed her shock into action. she wanted to make sure other women knew both the signs of uterine cancer and how to advocate for themselves, and created down there aware with her mother and cohost, mary, in early january 2020 to do just that. the podcast offers a unique multigenerational perspective on all things uterine health and what every person with a uterus needs to know about their risk of cancer., “since starting the podcast with the goal of spreading the word about endometrial cancer, we have both become increasingly aware of all five types of gynecologic cancers, and the common issues surrounding awareness, research, and funding,” says massey. “we now consider dta an advocate for holistic gynecologic health and wellness and we want to open conversations with physicians to help them understand the patient perspective.”, they also want to raise awareness about how data is showing new trends in who is getting diagnosed with uterine cancer, which was previously thought to only impact post-menopausal women, and the importance of advocating for your own health., “if there is one thing we want our listeners to take away from the podcast, it would be the importance of having an annual pelvic exam. beyond that, it is extremely important for women to advocate for themselves during an annual doctor’s visit and to be prepared. you know your body better than anyone else, so if something seems off, speak up until your questions are answered thoroughly,” says massey., where to start the masseys did an episode titled “did they really just say that?” in which they discuss the things people said to them and others about cancer and caregiving that made them cringe. for cancer thrivers and caregivers, it’s a source of solidarity, and a good listen for anyone looking for tips on what to say to someone who has recently been diagnosed with any type of cancer., latonya davis lost her sister, yolonda, to metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (tnbc) in may 2016. six months later, she was diagnosed with the same disease. she found solace in an unexpected place: an npr podcast that delves into the stories behind some of the world’s most infamous companies., “during grief and every phase of my cancer journey how i built this was a caregiver of sorts. it became an inspirational escape for me,” says davis., during chemotherapy, davis began searching for products to help with the side effects, like her darkening finger and toenails, hair loss, and loss of taste. she discovered other people who had been through their own cancer journey and had used their entrepreneurial wit to create products that made the grueling process just a bit easier., “i knew i wanted my testimony and advocacy efforts to have global reach and knew a podcast would be a great medium to help achieve that goal, and that’s when my ‘aha’ moment happened,” davis recalls., she set out to create a cancer podcast based on how i built this. sure enough, in 2018, npr announced a new fellowship for aspiring entrepreneurs and davis was selected as an inaugural how i built this fellow. after some pandemic-related hurdles, davis launched season 1 of the breast talk ever in fall of 2020 and is currently working on season 2., “it is entrepreneurship meets cancer survivorship. the breast talk ever is the first podcast of its kind to champion brands founded by dope entrepreneurial cancer survivors, previvors, thrivers, and allies through advocacy, lifestyle, and culture,” says davis., each episode offers an intimate, behind-the-screens look into the stories of entrepreneurs who were diagnosed with breast cancer or a brca gene mutation, identified a product needed in the breast cancer space, and brought it to life. the breast talk ever also outlines business tips for aspiring entrepreneurs, among the guests davis has hosted so far are a filmmaker, a financial executive turned children’s book author, and a journalist who used her investigative reporting skills to invent a waterproof postsurgical garment for breast cancer mastectomy patients. making the podcast fuels her creative and entrepreneurial drive, but has also been a healing process during davis's own journey., “the podcast has helped me work through the devastating trauma and grief of losing my sister to metastatic triple negative breast cancer six months before my diagnosis,” she says. “there is a lot of work that goes into producing a narrative podcast, but it is worth every sleepless night i spend cutting tape. it is for sure the most meaningful work i’ve done in my career.”, the best part — a portion of the proceeds from breast talk ever merchandise provides mammograms to under- and uninsured women in inner cities and rural communities across the united states., where to start start from the beginning, with the first two episodes, in which davis is interviewed by her best friend, the new york times journalist audra burch., randalynn vasel was 36 years old when her doctor told her she had ovarian cancer and that it was aggressive. she was a single mom of two young kids and living in st. louis when she underwent a six-hour debulking surgery, surgically induced menopause, and found out that she also had endometrial cancer., nine-hundred miles away, in denver, vicki campana was 37 years old and trying for a baby when she was diagnosed with 3a granulosa cell tumor (gct) ovarian cancer. after six months of chemo and failed fertility preservation, campana tested positive for the atm gene mutation, which put her at a higher risk of breast cancer. she opted to have a preventive mastectomy., ovarian cancer is the second most common gynecological cancer in the united states and causes more deaths than any other type of gynecological cancer, the cdc reports. “neither of us knew a thing about ovarian cancer before our diagnosis and we don't share the same type of ovarian cancer,” notes vasel., the two met on instagram, when vasel slid into campana’s dms back in 2017 asking if she was going to share her story on world ovarian cancer day., “what started as two ovarian cancer survivors chatting back and forth turned into us meeting by chance,” vasel says, referring to the time, nine months after that initial message, when the thrivers just happened to both be vacationing in florida and were able to meet in person for the first time., the two kept in touch, and in april 2021, they debuted their podcast, sips with survivors. the weekly episodes cover useful cancer information such as “what is a chemo bag?” and topics specifically geared toward caregivers who are looking for insight on how to help their loved one navigate their ovarian cancer diagnosis. they also feature guests who discuss their cancer journeys. the duo’s conversations come so easily, you’d never guess the two have hung out in person only a couple of times., “we hope listeners find that our personalities come through and we make the hard topics a bit easier to listen to,” says vasel. “by sharing our journey and how we've navigated everything from diagnosis to survivorship, we hope it helps one person feel not as alone.”, where to start the “it's ok to change” episode is a great discussion about the ways people change over time, especially after a traumatic experience. it opens up a post-cancer discussion that talks about how cancer can change the way you behave in other areas of your life., at 30 years old, leanne pero was diagnosed with stage 3 breast cancer. her diagnosis came just six months after her mother was diagnosed with breast cancer for the second time., within days, pero started her first of eight grueling rounds of chemotherapy. she underwent surgery multiple times, for a double mastectomy and later for reconstruction., “during my diagnosis and subsequent treatment, i began to see the gaps in support services for black cancer patients. the lack of inclusivity meant that the majority of mainstream support could not offer me what i needed,” said pero. “there was no adequate advice for hair care during treatment, no wigs or prosthetics tailored for women of color, and, vitally, the mental health support offered was tailored to middle-aged white women.”, pero began blogging about her experience with breast cancer and realized other black women had had the same experience., “i didn’t have the support network and i don’t want any other person to go through that,” says pero, citing this as the catalyst for organizing black women rising, which she started in 2017. a podcast by the same name was an extension of that work., “there are so many amazing podcasts out there that talk about the world of cancer, but to be able to create one that could support the black cancer community felt much needed,” she said. “when you are going through cancer and even when you have been given the all clear, you need support from people who get what you are going through. it was so important for me to provide a sisterhood, a sense of togetherness. because you need that. you need your cancer buddies.”, studies show that black women are 10 percent more likely than white women to develop breast cancer before age 50, but despite this fact, black women are vastly underrepresented in cancer research. that means many doctors still aren’t equipped with basic information that can help catch breast cancer in black women when it’s still in early, treatable stages., in addition, inequities and racism in global healthcare have long dictated who gets screened for cancer as well as the genes, like brca, that make people more susceptible to multiple bouts of cancer and to disease that develops when they are young. as a result, black women in the united states are 40 percent more likely to die of breast cancer even though they they have about the same risk of developing the disease as white women., the black women rising podcast doesn’t focus specifically on breast or gynecological cancers, but many of the episodes do feature black thrivers who have been diagnosed with these types of cancers. they also highlight overarching issues that impact anyone going through cancer treatment, as well as the stigma that keeps people from getting screened., where to start the season 2 episode on body image is a great one. in “cancer, confidence, and body image,” pero’s cohost charlotte crowl, who often hosts solo, talks with two women who were diagnosed with breast cancer when they were in their thirties. it’s a raw episode that makes breast cancer survivors feel seen, rather than reprimanded, about feeling self-conscious in their post-cancer bodies., related: black with breast cancer: ‘my doctor didn’t believe i was in pain’, by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][6 empowering breast and gynecological cancer podcasts hosted by survivors, these podcasts cover topics like survivorship, advocacy, caregiving, grief, entrepreneurship, and more., feel for yourself, cervivor podcast, handle with care: cancer & beyond, down there aware, the breast talk ever, sips with survivors, black women rising, most recent in breast cancer, 5 breast cancer long-haulers give advice to the newly diagnosed, olympian kikkan randall beat stage 2 cancer — and rode her bike to chemo, 5 need-to-knows if you’re considering a mastectomy tattoo, two sisters, one diagnosis, and a breast self-care line]best breast and gynecological cancer podcasts | everyday health[where to start , where to start , where to start , where to start , where to start , where to start , relate, d:, black with breast cancer: ‘my doctor didn’t believe i was in pain’][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]