[the american cancer society is here to support ukrainian patients with cancer, caregivers, and clinicians., whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here., you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early., whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home., our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research., what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life., we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer., kohl's partnership, nucor partnership, walmart partnership, at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better., prod, seven-time olympic medalist shannon miller says lessons she learned while training for gymnastics competitions helped her endure the rigors of treatment for ovarian cancer. “a huge part of my success as an athlete was that i had the mental game. to get through the toughest moments of treatment i relied on goal setting and keeping that positive mentality,” said miller., miller was 33 when she found out she had ovarian cancer. it was fall 2010 and she had almost skipped her regular women’s health exam. she was a new mother to 1-year-old rocco, had recently launched her company, shannon miller lifestyle: health and fitness for women, and just felt too busy with life and work to go for a checkup. but just as she was calling to cancel the appointment, she had a change of heart., “i started thinking – i was working in the health field interviewing physicians for my weekly radio show talking about early detection, and i thought ‘i’m not setting a good example by skipping an exam,’” she said. so she kept her appointment – a decision that helped her doctor find the cancer in an early stage., during a routine pelvic exam, miller’s doctor found a baseball sized mass on her ovary that turned out to be an ovarian germ cell tumor, a rare form of ovarian cancer. miller later realized she’d actually had signs of ovarian cancer – stomach ache, bloating, and weight loss. but because these are also often signs of much less serious problems, she didn’t even think to report them to her doctor., miller had surgery to remove the tumor and then 9 weeks of aggressive chemotherapy to give her the best chance of keeping the cancer from coming back. the cancer was stage ii – it was caught before it had spread to other parts of her body., before surgery, miller’s doctor didn’t know what he was going to find. he had a frank conversation with miller and her husband about whether they wanted to be able to have another child someday. he asked them about how aggressive he should be about removing the mass vs. preserving her fertility. “both my husband and i knew he had to be as aggressive as possible,” said miller. “we needed to do everything we could to make sure our son had a mom.”, but they also talked to the doctor about all their options. after surgery – which removed one ovary and one fallopian tube – they decided to save eggs before miller started chemotherapy., “i didn’t want to have any regrets. if you bring an umbrella, it won’t rain – that’s how i thought about it,” said miller. “we decided we will take advantage of every opportunity available; then if we needed to have a plan b, we were prepared.”, treatment was tough, both physically and emotionally. miller’s doctor called it the “hit ‘em hard, ‘em fast” approach. she would have chemotherapy 5 days a week for 9 weeks, starting about a month after her surgery. she told herself, “i can do anything for 9 weeks.”, but by the end of the first week, she had such severe nausea and vomiting, she was unable to keep even water down and was forced to check into the hospital to receive iv fluids. by week two, miller’s hair fell out and she experienced severe fatigue and neuropathy, a nerve pain, in her hands., “my next true moment was with me and god in that room thinking, ‘how do i do this?’” said miller. “i kept coming back to the realization that i don’t have to do this alone. i have my faith, and i have my team around me. i reminded myself i wasn’t the only one going through this.”, miller finished her chemo on may 2, 2011. “i thought i was going to have all my energy back, that my hair would grow back. i expected to feel better,” said miller. “but the neuropathy in my hands was so bad, i couldn’t open a bottle of water. i felt like each limb weighed a thousand pounds and i could barely will myself to get out of bed. when i was in olympic training 7 days a week, i never felt this kind of fatigue.”, she got help from another cancer survivor, her mother, who helped her understand she would feel better – but it would take time., "i use whatever voice i have from my olympic career to encourage women to keep medical appointments, get more sleep, eat right, get and stay fit, and recognize the signs and symptoms of cancer.", miller says it took about a year before she felt like herself again. she was still extra tired and taking naps right up until the 2012 summer olympics in london where she covered gymnastics for the media. shortly after she returned home from london, she found out she was pregnant. her daughter sterling is now 3 years old., today, miller travels the country telling her cancer story and encouraging women to take care of themselves, “i use whatever voice i have from my olympic career to encourage women to keep medical appointments, get more sleep, eat right, get and stay fit, and recognize the signs and symptoms of cancer,” she says., in june, in honor of national cancer survivors day, miller spoke at a cancer survivors’ reunion sponsored by the american cancer society and extended stay america hotels, which donates hotel stays to cancer patients whose best option for cancer treatment is away from home., “extended stay america does so much for those going through a cancer diagnosis. there is so much involved beyond treatment for patients and caregivers,” said miller. “i enjoy the opportunity to speak to survivors. we are all at a different place in our journey, but we can learn something from every story. learning more and being around other survivors or reading about them is important because it gives you hope. the more we can do to create awareness the better, so we are catching cancer earlier when there are more options for treatment.”, “the biggest lesson i learned was how much i needed to appreciate every day,” said miller. “no matter where you are in your journey, you can take that day and do your best with it. i used to fly through life. i didn’t take time to savor it. i was always go, go, go. now i understand the importance of really taking time to appreciate every moment.”, the american cancer society medical and editorial content team, our team is made up of doctors and oncology certified nurses with deep knowledge of cancer care as well as journalists, editors, and translators with extensive experience in medical writing., due to the impact of covid-19 on american cancer society resources, we are no longer able to review new submissions for stories of hope., , american cancer society news stories are copyrighted material and are not intended to be used as press releases. for reprint requests, please see our content usage policy., imagine a world free from cancer. help make it a reality., donate, cancer information, answers, and hope. available every minute of every day., © 2022 american cancer society, inc. all rights reserved. the american cancer society is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. tax id number: 13-1788491. cancer.org is provided courtesy of the leo and gloria rosen family.][more topics, insights and inspiration, featured resources, related topics, featured resources, navigating treatment, top story, more cancer news, top story, life-saving research, interactive & multimedia, more ways to get involved, our passion, partners spotlight, partners against cancer, partners spotlight, get to know us, making a difference, lessons from the olympics help shannon miller through ovarian cancer treatment, ‘will i ever have children again?’, a tough road, life as a survivor, related news and stories, 800.227.2345]lessons from the olympics help shannon miller through ovarian cancer treatment[imagine a world free from cancer., , ][español, more languages, cancer a-z whether you or someone you love has cancer, knowing what to expect can help you cope. from basic information about cancer and its causes to in-depth information on specific cancer types – including risk factors, early detection, diagnosis, and treatment options – you’ll find it here. explore cancer a-z breast cancer colon and rectal cancer lung cancer prostate cancer skin cancer all cancer types more topics cancer basics what causes cancer? cancer glossary insights and inspiration cancer news stories of hope acs bookstore for professionals, explore cancer a-z, breast cancer, colon and rectal cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, skin cancer, all cancer types, cancer basics, what causes cancer?, cancer glossary, cancer news, stories of hope, acs bookstore, for professionals, stay healthy you can help reduce your risk of cancer by making healthy choices like eating right, staying active and not smoking. it’s also important to follow recommended screening guidelines, which can help detect certain cancers early. explore stay healthy find cancer early stay away from tobacco eat healthy & get active be safe in the sun protect against hpv cancer facts featured resources screening guidelines by age sun safety videos nutrition & activity quiz bmi calculator videos, quizzes, & calculators healthy recipes related topics learn about carcinogens genetics & cancer alcohol use & cancer signs & symptoms of cancer cancer prevention news, explore stay healthy, find cancer early, stay away from tobacco, eat healthy & get active, be safe in the sun, protect against hpv, cancer facts, screening guidelines by age, sun safety videos, nutrition & activity quiz, bmi calculator, videos, quizzes, & calculators, healthy recipes, learn about carcinogens, genetics & cancer, alcohol use & cancer, signs & symptoms of cancer, cancer prevention news, treatment & support whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, we’re here to help. we can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from home. explore treatment & support understanding your diagnosis treatment & side effects survivorship financial & insurance matters children & cancer for caregivers & family nearing the end of life featured resources patient programs and services clinical trials when natural disasters strike choosing your treatment team understanding recurrence navigating treatment personal health manager caregiver resource guide treatment videos survivorship care plans, explore treatment & support, understanding your diagnosis, treatment & side effects, survivorship, financial & insurance matters, children & cancer, for caregivers & family, nearing the end of life, patient programs and services, clinical trials, when natural disasters strike, choosing your treatment team, understanding recurrence, personal health manager, caregiver resource guide, treatment videos, survivorship care plans, news top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak our team of expert journalists brings you all angles of the cancer story – from breaking news and survivor stories to in-depth insights into cutting-edge research. explore news latest news cancer updates living well acs research stories of hope more cancer news cancer facts and statistics research highlights acs press room top story common questions about the covid-19 outbreak, explore news, latest news, cancer updates, living well, acs research, stories of hope, cancer facts and statistics, research highlights, acs press room, our research what does it take to outsmart cancer? research. we’ve invested more than $5 billion in cancer research since 1946, all to find more – and better – treatments, uncover factors that may cause cancer, and improve cancer patients’ quality of life. explore our research acs research highlights acs research news cancer facts & figures cps-3: cancer prevention study-3 currently funded cancer research apply for a grant life-saving research research we fund surveillance & health equity science population science our research team interactive & multimedia cancer statistics center tobacco atlas cancer atlas acs research podcasts, explore our research, acs research highlights, acs research news, cancer facts & figures, cps-3: cancer prevention study-3, currently funded cancer research, apply for a grant, research we fund, surveillance & health equity science, population science, our research team, cancer statistics center, tobacco atlas, cancer atlas, acs research podcasts, get involved we couldn’t do what we do without our volunteers and donors. together, we’re making a difference – and you can, too. become a volunteer, make a tax-deductible donation, or participate in a fundraising event to help us save lives. explore get involved volunteer donate fundraise sign up for email more ways to get involved plan a gift shop to save lives celebrate a loved one be an advocate our passion volunteer to help acs in your community cancer news more ways to give, explore get involved, volunteer, donate, fundraise, sign up for email, plan a gift, shop to save lives, celebrate a loved one, be an advocate, volunteer to help, acs in your community, cancer news, more ways to give, our partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership the american cancer society couldn’t do what we do without the support of our partners. learn more about these partnerships and how you too can join us in our mission to save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without cancer. explore our partners become a partner partner promotions employee engagement partners against cancer corporate partners ceo's against cancer sports alliances brand ambassadors community partners partners spotlight learn more kohl's partnership learn more nucor partnership learn more walmart partnership, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, explore our partners, become a partner, partner promotions, employee engagement, corporate partners, ceo's against cancer, sports alliances, brand ambassadors, community partners, learn more kohl's partnership, learn more nucor partnership, learn more walmart partnership, about us at the american cancer society, we’re on a mission to free the world from cancer. until we do, we’ll be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. all so you can live longer — and better. explore about us who we are what we do where we help sign up for email get to know us our history global cancer programs financials & governance multicultural communities making a difference careers at acs our leadership acs news room, explore about us, who we are, what we do, where we help, sign up for email, our history, global cancer programs, financials & governance, multicultural communities, careers at acs, our leadership, acs news room, news, cancer in young adults, gynecologic cancer, ovarian cancer, stories of hope, news, reviewed by, submit your story, ovarian cancer survivor views each day as a gift when mercedes mundaca was diagnosed with stage 4 ovarian cancer at age 43, her doctor told her she had 4 months to live. that was 6 years ago., young survivor has a message for other cancer patients ana rodriguez is only 19 years old, but she is already a 2-time, 5-year cancer survivor. now she wants to inspire other young cancer patients with her story., survivors: words of inspiration these inspiring words from cancer survivors describe the insights they’ve learned and challenges they’ve faced as they’ve lived through cancer., cancer prevention & detection, cancer basics, signs & symptoms of cancer, treatments & side effects, acs research highlights, cancer facts & statistics, news and stories, glossary, for health care professionals, lodging during treatment, rides to treatment, breast cancer support, hair loss and mastectomy products, connecting cancer survivors, making strides against breast cancer walks, relay for life events, american cancer society on campus, coaches vs. cancer, galas, balls & parties, ways to give, memorial giving, planned giving, philanthropy, donate a car, contact us, local offices, employment, information for suppliers, report fraud or abuse, sign up for email, our research, cancer action network, global health, policies, our volunteers, bookstore, cancer atlas, cancer statistics center, acs news room, volunteer community, help, site map, privacy policy, accessibility, terms of use, state fundraising notices, site comments]