[ovarian cancer is a form of cancer that currently affects about a quarter million women in the united states. in 2020, it’s estimated that there will be over 20,000 new cases of ovarian cancer and nearly 14,000 deaths as a result of it. because the early signs and symptoms of ovarian cancer can be vague and no screening test yet exists, almost 80 percent of new cases are already in advanced stages at diagnosis. raising awareness about the disease is essential to combatting it., september has been designated ovarian cancer awareness month, and is filled with events dedicated to educating people about the ovarian cancer and its symptoms., related: ovarian cancer: myths vs. facts, several days in september and in the following months are dedicated to raising awareness about ovarian cancer., world ovarian cancer day serves to spread awareness about the deadliness of ovarian cancer around the globe. in 2020, nearly 300,000 new diagnoses and over 184,000 deaths worldwide were attributed to ovarian cancer. these numbers are projected to climb in the next 15 years. world ovarian cancer day seeks to bring together people affected by ovarian cancer, advocacy groups, and supporters in order to raise awareness and solidarity., the final week of ovarian cancer awareness month and into october is particularly focused on ovarian and breast cancer risk that runs in families through inherited cancer genes such as brca1 and brca2, which raise the risk for both breast cancer and ovarian cancer. when there are multiple cases of breast or ovarian cancer on one side of a family, a diagnosis of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (hboc) may be considered. national hboc week seeks to educate people on potential risk factors and prevention strategies for women who discover that they are at elevated genetic risk for the disease., women’s health week seeks to raise awareness surrounding breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and cervical cancer. screenings for these cancers are promoted, in addition to awareness about risk factors, and support for people affected by these diseases., related: 6 common questions about ovarian cancer, answered, there are many walks and runs throughout the country to support people living with ovarian cancer. in the midst of the covid-19 pandemic, many events are being offered in virtual form while still promoting fundraising and awareness for ovarian cancer. here is a list of popular walks and runs for cancer in the united states:, the ovarian cancer research alliance (ocra) hosts cycling events to raise money for ovarian cancer research and awareness. during the covid-19 pandemic, they have moved two april events to virtual settings, and currently plan on hosting events in virginia beach, virginia, on august 8 and orlando, florida, on september 26. if the in-person events are cancelled, they will continue virtually, and virtual participation is already an option., t.e.a.l. (tell every amazing lady) will host its annual t.e.a.l. walks throughout the month of september — in brooklyn on september 12, litchfield on september 19, and savannah on september 26. each event is currently planned to occur as an in-person activity, but a virtual event is an option., professional conferences and meetings offer an opportunity for doctors, researchers and pharmaceutical professionals to share the latest research and findings on ovarian cancer. like some of the runs and walks, many conferences have been postponed or moved to a virtual setting as a result of the covid-19 pandemic., upcoming conferences and meetings include:, the ocra will host its annual conference from september 29 to october 2 virtually as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. its aim is to bring together the ovarian cancer community, and create a fun, supportive, and informative event for people affected by ovarian cancer., the american association for cancer research will hold its research symposium on ovarian cancer from september 26 to 28. currently, it is planned to be held in seattle. its goal is to bring together clinicians and researchers for collaboration in order to advance the field of ovarian cancer research., related: immunotherapy for ovarian cancer, national ovarian cancer coalition, the national ovarian cancer coalition (nocc) is a 25-year-old grassroots organization dedicated to saving lives through prevention and fundraising for ovarian cancer research. local chapters can be found across the united states, including in new york city, washington, dc, and san antonio, texas. the nocc’s volunteers assist in running community events and spread earlier awareness in channels from local health fairs to social media., ovarian cancer research alliance, the ocra seeks volunteers to participate in events and fairs dedicated to raising awareness about ovarian cancer. volunteers may work one-on-one with patients or people affected, participate in workshops promoting women’s health, or run booths at health fairs dedicated to spreading awareness., world ovarian cancer coalition, while it doesn’t directly accept volunteers, the world ovarian cancer coalition works with over a hundred organizations around the globe dedicated to patients with ovarian cancer to promote awareness and spread solidarity for ovarian cancer. its campaigns include both local events and social media advocacy., spreading awareness in social and political circles is also a great way to combat ovarian cancer., social media is an excellent way to spreading awareness about ovarian cancer and people affected by it. during ovarian cancer awareness month, the nocc encourages people to post or tweet with #knowovarian and tag 10 people to include more people in the movement for ovarian cancer research and treatment. other hashtags to spread awareness include #endwomenscancer, #takeactionnotchances, and #whyteal (tell every amazing lady)., to affect access to care and diagnosis for women living with ovarian cancer and seeking a prognosis, stay aware of bills that can affect the affordability of long-term treatment and in particular, the access to screening and detection. making tests and early detection more accessible will help limit deaths due to this disease., for information about clinical trials for ovarian cancer near you, visit the national cancer institute or nocc for more information., visit the ocra website for info on a variety of scholarships for students affected by ovarian cancer to find one that suits you., for support groups, visit the nocc or cancer care websites to find one that suits you in your area. some online support groups on facebook include ovarian cancer support group (about 8,300 members) and ovarian cancer uk (about 3,300 members)., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., pain from ovarian cancer can be subtle or extensive, but there are pain management strategies that can help., it’s important to know your ovarian cancer risk when family planning and how a prior diagnosis can affect fertility., effective ovarian cancer treatment requires a cooperative approach. learn about the key healthcare providers who should be on your team., whether you’re in the middle of treatment for ovarian cancer or trying to get your strength back after you’ve completed it, a yoga routine may be just..., new treatments for advanced ovarian cancer are helping some women defy the odds. here’s how one 78-year-old and her doctors have kept hope alive for a..., a pelvic exam is usually the first step, followed by blood tests, imaging tests, and surgery., treated at its earliest stage, ovarian cancer has a high survival rate. but women and their doctors often fail to recognize the symptoms, leading to missed..., does using talcum powder raise your risk of ovarian cancer? does having a hysterectomy mean you can’t get the disease? here, an faq., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][ovarian cancer awareness month: september 2020, ovarian cancer awareness days, weeks, and events, world ovarian cancer day is may 8, national hereditary breast and ovarian cancer week is from september 29 to october 5, women’s health week is may 10 to may 16, annual community walks and runs in support of ovarian cancer, ocra’s ovarian cycle, t.e.a.l. walk in brooklyn, new york; litchfield, connecticut; and savannah, georgia, conferences and meetings on ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer national conference, 13th biennial ovarian cancer research symposium, volunteering and partnering with a local health center, how to spread awareness about ovarian cancer, sharing on social media, get political, getting involved in research studies and clinical trials for ovarian cancer, sharing resources to help people with ovarian cancer, the latest in ovarian cancer, finding a cancer diagnosis and coping with infertility, ovarian cancer pain: what it feels like, what causes it, and how women manage it, ovarian cancer and pregnancy: what you need to know, meet your ovarian cancer healthcare team, yoga for ovarian cancer: poses that benefit your health during and after treatment, ovarian cancer survivor stories, ovarian cancer: how is ovarian cancer diagnosed?, your everyday guide to living well with ovarian cancer, with ovarian cancer, early detection is key. why is it so hard?, 6 common questions about ovarian cancer, answered, biden relaunches cancer moonshot program with pledge to “end cancer as we know it’, breast cancer resources: where do you turn when you need help?, skin cancer awareness month: may 2021]ovarian cancer awareness month 2020| everyday health[related:, ovarian cancer: myths vs. facts, world ovarian cancer day is may 8, national hereditary breast and ovarian cancer week is from september 29 to october 5, women’s health week is may 10 to may 16, related:, 6 common questions about ovarian cancer, answered, ocra’s ovarian cycle, t.e.a.l. walk in brooklyn, new york; litchfield, connecticut; and savannah, georgia, ovarian cancer national conference, 13th biennial ovarian cancer research symposium, , related:, immunotherapy for ovarian cancer, national ovarian cancer coalition, ovarian cancer research alliance, world ovarian cancer coalition, sharing on social media, , get political, ][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, ocra’s ovarian cycle, t.e.a.l. walk, ovarian cancer national conference, 13th biennial ovarian cancer research symposium, about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]