[livingwith™ is designed to help you connect with loved ones, ask for the support you need, remember important information from doctors’ visits and stay organized, all in one place. livingwith can help people living with cancer and their caregivers: • share how you’re feeling. track mood, pain, sleep and steps; integrate with the health app and wearables; and share personalized graphs with your doctor • get help. stay connected to loved ones and send or receive requests for help with daily tasks • make notes. write and record notes and questions for the doctor • stay organized. keep test results, medication details and insurance information all in one place livingwith is part of the this is living with cancer™ program developed by pfizer oncology for people living with cancer and those who love them. livingwith is available in english and spanish. technical help needed? contact us at livingwithsupport@pfizer.com. pp-onc-usa-1273-01, version 3.0.1, focus on your wellbeing use the new mywellbeing section of livingwith® to: - track fatigue, mood, pain, and sleep; integrate with health apps and wearables (capturing steps and sleep) and share personalized graphs with your doctor - explore tools designed to help you with some common health-related challenges faced when you manage life with cancer, 131 ratings, this app has been so useful to me. i love the ability to log how i feel day to day that i can build a strong support network. the app is user friendly and a joy to use. highly recommend., thank you for using the livingwithtm app. we appreciate your feedback and are delighted to hear that you like it. we hope you continue to enjoy the app! if there’s anything you would like to add to your feedback, please don’t hesitate to email us at: livingwithsupport@pfizer.com. thank you!, the app is very easy to navigate. i love the idea of adding who is important to me to my account so that they are able to see exactly what is happening to me when i visit my doctors. this avoids the need for me to have to call everyone individually., thank you for sharing your experience with us and choosing the livingwith app. we're glad to hear you've found our app useful. if there’s anything you’d like to add to your feedback, please don’t hesitate to email us at: livingwithsupport@pfizer.com. thank you!, this app has information that i’ve never thought about. who knew grapefruits are not good for you when you’re taking chemo!, thank you for choosing the livingwith app and sharing your experience with us. we're glad to hear you've found our app useful. you may visit us at www.thisislivingwithcancer.com to find more resources. if there’s anything you’d like to add to your feedback, please don’t hesitate to email us at: livingwithsupport@pfizer.com. thank you!, the developer, pfizer inc, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, spanish, impala kit verify, pfizer prism, travel smart - pfizer travel, madeline, shipment notification, atlas surveillance, belong beating cancer together, american cancer society cancer survivorship care guidelines, chemowave: cancer health diary, bezzy breast cancer, my breast cancer coach, outcomes4me breast cancer care][livingwith®: cancer support 12+, get support and stay connected, pfizer inc, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, love this app!!!, developer response ,, great idea, developer response ,, awesome, developer response ,, app privacy, data not linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎livingwith®: cancer support on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.1 • 131 ratings, 4.1 • 131 ratings, free, free, iphone, ipad, , , , , , location, usage data, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]