[mdn has switched to persona, a safe and simple way to sign in with just your e-mail address. learn more about why mozilla is using persona., returning members: sign in with persona and you'll be connected to your mdn profile (all your information is still here)., new members: sign in with persona first, then you'll be able to set up your new mdn profile., sign in, search, this article is in need of a technical review., this article is in need of an editorial review., , , firefox 22 beta was released on may 16, 2013. while it has been developed to maintain compatibility as much as possible, the new version includes some changes affecting backward compatibility aimed at improving interoperability with the other browsers or following the latest web standards. here's the list of such changes — hope this helps whenever you test your sites or applications., this article only explains the changes that may affect backward compatibility for websites. for the other new features and changes, please read the following documents:, this list may be updated until the release of the final version on jun 25, 2013, so please check back later., the new flexible box (flexbox) implemented in firefox 18 is now available without having to edit a hidden preference. note that it's not compatible with the traditional prefixed implementation such as -moz-box-flex., since firefox 18, the min-width and min-height properties have taken the auto keyword as their initial value, which computed to 0 in most cases but had special behavior on flex items. this value was introduced in a previous version of the css flexible box (flexbox) spec, but a subsequent version of the spec removed the value. consequently, the initial value of these properties has been restored to 0, as defined in css 2.1, and auto is no longer recognized as a valid value., the node.getuserdata and node.setuserdata methods are no longer available from web contents. element.dataset or weakmap can be used instead., the node.issupported method is no longer available, due to the removal from the spec. since firefox 19, this method has always returned true., the node.attributes property is no longer available, due to the removal from the spec. the element.attributes property is still available., the htmlmediaelement.crossorigin property has been renamed to htmlmediaelement.crossorigin, and htmlinputelement.inputmode property has also been renamed to htmlinputelement.inputmode to comply with the spec (note the capital letters)., support for the multipart property on xmlhttprequest and multipart/x-mixed-replace responses in xmlhttprequest has been removed. this was a firefox-only feature that was never standardized. server-sent events, web sockets or inspecting responsetext from progress events can be used instead., previously, creating an html element with one of these tag names resulted in an htmlspanelement. now bgsound and multicol are htmlunknownelement and image is htmlelement, as per spec., lsprogressevent, an old interface which has been used especially with xmlhttprequest and deprecated since firefox 10, has been removed along with the input, position, totalsize attributes. as explained in the monitoring progress section, the generic progressevent interface can be used instead, including the loaded and total attributes., the progressevent.initprogressevent method is no longer available, due to the removal from the spec. the support for document.createevent("progressevent") has also been dropped., the svgevent interface has been removed, due to the removal from the spec., unknown svg elements will be svgelement instead of svgunknownelement., the nodeiterator.detach method has been changed to do nothing., the parallelarray object, which has been experimentally implemented since firefox 17, is now disabled in the beta, release and esr channels. use the aurora or nightly channel to try out this feature., starting with firefox 22, third-party cookies are blocked by default, like apple safari, to give users more control over online privacy. for details, see the post on mozilla privacy blog and jonathan mayer's faq about the new firefox cookie policy., update: this change has been postponed to collect and analyze data on the effect of blocking some third-party cookies. in the beta and release channels, the default preference will be kept to allow third-party cookies. see brendan eich's blog post for details., when decoding the filename parameter in content-disposition headers, firefox had attempted to unescape using the rfc 2047 encoding. this was a bug according to the relevant specs, and implemented only on firefox and chrome. the rfc 2231/5987 encoding can be used instead., is mdn helpful to you? please share your feedback with us. or join our mailing list about improving mdn content., © 2005 - 2013 mozilla developer network and individual contributors, content is available under these licenses • about mdn • contribute to the code • privacy policy][what's this?, site compatibility for firefox 22, table of contents, css, the css3 flexible box has been enabled by default, the initial value for min-width and min-height has been changed back to 0 (even on flex items), dom, node.getuserdata and setuserdata have been removed, node.issupported has been removed, node.attributes has been removed, htmlmediaelement.crossorigin and htmlinputelement.inputmode has been renamed, xhr multipart response support has been removed, html elements with tag names bgsound, multicol, and image no longer use the htmlspanelement inteface, lsprogressevent has been removed, progressevent.initprogressevent has been removed, svgevent has been removed, unknown svg elements will be svgelement, nodeiterator.detach does nothing, javascript, parallelarray is now disabled in beta, release and esr, security & privacy, third-party cookies are blocked by default, file handling, rfc 2047 encoding support for http header field parameters has been removed, tags (4)]site compatibility for firefox 22 | mdn[aug, 2014, returning members:, new members:, draft, this article only explains the changes that may affect backward compatibility for websites][select language, skip to search, skip to main content, read docs html css javascript graphics apis / dom apps dev tools mathml tutorials references developer guides demos ...more docs, html css javascript graphics apis / dom apps dev tools mathml, html, css, javascript, graphics, apis / dom, apps, dev tools, mathml, tutorials references developer guides demos ...more docs, tutorials, references, developer guides, demos, ...more docs, make apps, build & use firefox firefox os firefox desktop mobile add-ons, firefox os, firefox desktop, mobile, add-ons, see & submit demos, get involved join the community contribute to mdn events tweets, blogs, and more, join the community, contribute to mdn, events, tweets, blogs, and more, sign in what's this? mdn has switched to persona, a safe and simple way to sign in with just your e-mail address. learn more about why mozilla is using persona. returning members: sign in with persona and you'll be connected to your mdn profile (all your information is still here). new members: sign in with persona first, then you'll be able to set up your new mdn profile. sign in, this page print this page new sub-page clone this page, print this page, new sub-page, clone this page, languages 日本語 add translation, 日本語, add translation, site compatibility for firefox 22, history, edit, css, dom, javascript, security & privacy, file handling, tags, files, firefox 22 beta release notes, firefox 22 for developers, bug 841876 – re-enable flexbox pref (by default) in release builds, bug 848539 – remove support for "min-width: auto" and "min-height: auto", since they're being dropped from flexbox spec, bug 842372 – make getuserdata and setuserdata chromeonly, bug 801562 – remove node.issupported, bug 844134 – attributes should be defined on element and not node, bug 847370 – htmlmediaelement - crossorigin vs crossorigin, bug 850346 – inputmode vs inputmode for nshtmlinputelement, bug 843508 – remove support for multipart xhr responses, bug 844127 – stop using the htmlspanelement interface for bgsound, multicol, image, bug 845631 – remove nsxmlhttpprogressevent, bug 843489 – [progress events] remove support for progressevent.initprogressevent() and document.createevent("progressevent"), bug 847600 – remove svgevent, bug 840417 – unknown svg elements should be svgelement, not svgunknownelement, bug 823549 – make nodeiterator.detach() a no-op, bug 853067 – disable parallelarray in beta/release/esr for now, bug 818340 – block cookies from sites i haven't visited, bug 601933 – remove rfc 2047 encoding support for http header field parameters, compatibility, firefox, web development, firefox 22]