[google help › google chrome help › using google chrome › clear personal information › clear browsing data  , every once in a while, you might want to remove some of the browsing data you've accumulated, especially if you've found yourself on a shady part of the web., to clear your browsing data, follow these steps:, clear the list of the websites you've visited in google chrome. their content will no longer be searchable from the history page. clearing your browsing history specifically deletes the following:, this option does not clear cookies set by those pages or your download history. learn how to clear history for a specific day., , 13 replies, 16 replies, answered - 29 replies, 8 replies, 4 replies, , , , , ©2009 google - google home - about google - privacy policy - terms of service - contacting support -, ][google chrome help, clear personal information: clear browsing data, was this article:, you may also be interested in..., recommended articles, popular discussions, facebook photo issues- "this webpage has a redirect loop.", installer error: 0x8004071c, anyone else experiencing regular crashes?, why is google blocking access to auctiva? how do i access auctiva again?, can you download google chrome and save to file?, help resources]clear personal information : clear browsing data - google chrome help[apr, 2010, tools, clear browsing data, everything, clear browsing data, answered][google chrome home, help topics, getting started, using google chrome, troubleshooting, help forum, google chrome release notes, google chrome comic, click the tools menu ., select clear browsing data., select the checkboxes for the types of information you wish to remove. click a link below to find out more about each option. clear browsing history clear the list of the websites you've visited in google chrome. their content will no longer be searchable from the history page. clearing your browsing history specifically deletes the following: urls of webpages you visited from the history page cached text of those webpages snapshots of those webpages for thumbnails ip addresses that were pre-fetched from those webpages this option does not clear cookies set by those pages or your download history. learn how to clear history for a specific day. clear download history clear the list of files you've downloaded using google chrome. the actual files are not removed from your computer. learn how to clear specific download records. empty the cache delete any stored text of webpages you've visited in google chrome. browsers store elements of webpages to speed up the loading of the webpage during your next visit. delete cookies delete all cookies created by websites you've visited. cookies are files that store user information, such as your preferences for the website or profile information. learn how to delete a specific cookie. clear saved passwords clear records of your usernames and passwords that you've asked the browser to save. learn how to remove specific password records., urls of webpages you visited from the history page, cached text of those webpages, snapshots of those webpages for thumbnails, ip addresses that were pre-fetched from those webpages, use the 'clear data from this period' drop-down menu to select how much of your information you want to delete. by default, google chrome only clears information collected in the last 24 hours. to clear browsing information from a longer period of time, select another option in the drop-down menu. to wipe out all data, select the everything option., click the clear browsing data button., clear personal information: remove password records, clear personal information: delete cookies, clear personal information: clear browsing history, delete cookies, clear browsing history, remove password records, clear download history, incognito mode, facebook photo issues- "this webpage has a redirect loop." 13 replies, installer error: 0x8004071c 16 replies, anyone else experiencing regular crashes? answered - 29 replies, why is google blocking access to auctiva? how do i access auctiva again? 8 replies, can you download google chrome and save to file? 4 replies, getting started guide, google chrome help forum, known issues, contacting support]