[as humans, we’re hardwired for connection. belonging to a community makes us feel safe and helps us thrive. but so often, living with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) can make you feel physically and emotionally isolated. not only can it be hard to do things you loved before your diagnosis, but it can also feel like no one understands what it’s like. until now. our mission is to cultivate a space powered by the ra community and empowered by each other. from one-to-one chats to conversation forums, we make connecting easy. this is a safe place to find and receive advice, to seek and offer support, and to discover the authentic stories of members, just like you. bezzy ra is a free online platform bringing new meaning to the word “community.” our aim is to create an experience where: - everyone feels seen, valued, and understood - everyone’s story matters - shared vulnerability is the name of the game bezzy ra is a place where you are more than your ra. it’s a place where, finally, you belong. how it works social-first content like all of your favorite social networks, we’ve designed an activity feed to connect you with other members living with ra. we pride ourselves on making bezzy ra a safe and secure space where you can join live discussions, connect one-to-one, and read the latest articles and personal stories. live chats need to vent? get advice? share what’s on your mind? hop into a daily live chat to join the conversation. they’re often led by our amazing community guide, but you can also expect to chat with other advocates and experts, too. forums from treatments to symptoms to daily living, ra changes everything. whatever you're feeling on any given day, there's a forum where you can connect and share directly with others. 1:1 messaging let us connect you with a new member from our community every day. we’ll recommend members to you based on your treatment plan, lifestyle interests, and needs. browse member profiles and request to connect with anyone from our community with members listed as “online now.” discover articles and stories we believe that shared experiences empower the kind of belonging that can help people not only survive—but thrive—with ra. our stories offer perspectives and tips from people who know what it’s like. get handpicked wellness and member stories delivered to you each week. connect safely anytime, anywhere we take thoughtful steps to build safety, security, and privacy into our platform and foster an environment where members feel safe sharing their personal experiences. check and send messages, see who’s online, and get notified when a new message comes in—so you’ll never miss a thing. about healthline healthline media is the top ranked health publisher and number 44 on comscore’s top 100 property rankings. across all of its properties, healthline media each month publishes up to 1,000 scientifically accurate yet reader-friendly articles authored by more than 120 writers and reviewed by more than 100 doctors, clinicians, nutritionists, and other experts. the company’s repository contains more than 70,000 articles, each updated with current protocol. more than 200 million people worldwide and 86 million people in the u.s. visit healthline’s sites each month, according to google analytics and comscore, respectively., version 8.2.3, we’re always making strides to ensure bezzy ra is the best version of itself. this update includes: - small updates and bug fixes: optimizations to help improve your experience, 535 ratings, there are many ra reference places that i have tried but find ra healthline to be the best. it has lots of different areas of information to jump around on! it can pair you up with like patients to yourself but are not committed to do this if you feel uncomfortable. it also has various area sectioned off such as pain and medications, nutrition, mental health areas plus they have an interactive conversation with posted area of concern advertised ahead of time in case you want to jump on board! i love this app!, i also have osteoarthritis and each day holds an unusual challenge. i am known as the bionic woman in my family but seriously we weren’t promised this life would be all cake and ice cream. i thank everyone including the arthritis foundation for coming up with some of the remedy’s for these disabling diseases. keep plunging on. fellow sufferers i salute you., i tried to sign up and the app said my phone number was invalid, which i know not to be true, so i exited the app and tried again but it said my phone number has been blocked. i am a bit disappointed as i was really excited to join the community - i really need some support right now - and tried to google how to get in touch with someone who might be able to help unban me, but i couldn’t really find anything. the app support button on this page also leads to a form that says it’s experiencing issues so this was the only way i could think of to get a hold of someone. is there anything i can do? or at least some other contact information i can try?, the developer, healthline media, inc, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be used to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies:, the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, bezzy ms, bezzy breast cancer, bezzy ibd, bezzy migraine, bezzy t2d, bezzy psa, arthritispower, cliexa-ra, ra monitor, embark - medication support, manage my pain, vim pain mgmt][bezzy ra 17+, rheumatoid arthritis chat app, healthline media, inc, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, many ra reference places, me and ra & psa, please help, app privacy, data used to track you, data not linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎bezzy ra on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.8 • 535 ratings, 4.8 • 535 ratings, free, free, iphone, ipad, , , , , , contact info, identifiers, usage data, health & fitness, location, contact info, user content, search history, identifiers, usage data, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]