[outcomes4me is the most essential and trusted app in helping breast cancer patients navigate their care. simply download the app and answer a few questions in regards to your cancer history. based on your medical records, we will then supply you with personalized tools and resources that you need to get the best outcome possible. *** outcomes4me featured tools & resources • personalized treatment path – get a snapshot of recommended treatment options, drug information, and procedure alternatives based on your medical records history. • clinical trial matching – get matched with clinical trials that are relevant to you and around your desired location. • symptom management & tracking – monitor how your medication and therapies are making you feel and track your progress towards improved health. • consolidated medical records – we will track down and consolidate all your medical records into one report that is easy to read and understand. • curated cancer news content – personalized news content surrounding your breast cancer diagnosis, insurance, policies, and much more. • ask center – ask our team a question based on how you’re feeling for support and guidance to better manage your care. • validated external resources – our resources section provides you with additional vetted information on genomics, specialized cases, and guidance from the american society of breast cancer, the nccn, the cdc, asco, who, and more. how outcomes4me works the data shows that empowered patients have better outcomes. outcomes4me supplies you with personalized tools and information to navigate your cancer care based on your medical records. outcomes4me has a dedicated team of healthcare and software professionals who have joined forces to give breast cancer patients the simplest, most accurate, most helpful information and tools based on their medical records and the most up-to-date nccn guidelines in this all-in-one breast cancer app. why outcomes4me • outcomes4me is the only app fully integrated with nccn guidelines that provides you with personalized treatment options based on your specific breast cancer diagnosis • 7 days of symptom tracking is all it takes before you start to see trends and results that can make you feel better • no additional appointments, no added bills, this app is 100% free and always will be what our users are saying “your app gave me so much hope because you showed me there are treatments and clinical trials out there for me to try” - patient w/ stage 2 hr+/her- “i like being able to monitor and list the symptoms i’m experiencing. i think it will be helpful to report to my physician” - patient w/ metastatic breast cancer “what a great tool to show my doctor how i was progressing!” - patient on clinical trial outcomes4me is the essential breast cancer app and the only app that can give you evidence-based treatment recommendations personalized to your cancer diagnosis. download outcomes4me today and join our community of members helping us on our mission to empower patients with understandable, relevant, and evidence-based information surrounding their cancer diagnosis. take control over your breast cancer with this all-in-one app. music: www.bensound.com, version 3.7.10, we’ve made some bug fixes along with performance improvements to provide patients with a better experience. check out the latest version of outcomes4me today!, 65 ratings, while researching the web for any type of support for living with mbc, i came across outcomes4me. i was fascinated by the ease yet sophistication of this app. it asked me some basic personal questions about my diagnosis and by using the latest technology it was able to provide me with evidence-based treatment options, clinical trials i may be a match for, and the latest news about mbc! it also allowed me to enter any symptoms that i was having on a daily basis, which it then used to create charts showing me how my symptoms were trending over time. what a great tool to show my doctor how i was progressing!! as a technological person, this application was a dream come true., 18 months after my breast cancer diagnosis i downloaded the outcomes4me app and requested my medical records be stored here. when they arrived to the app, i discovered a component of my pathology that i was never told about from my oncologist or surgeons. this is an amazing app that acts as a 3rd party verifying system of medical records. the records have more detailed information the the mychart i have. i highly recommend this app, as they gave me information that i’ve since confirmed is accurate that i didn’t have before. information is power! not only that, the content and news is applicable and worthy. highly recommend this for breast cancer survivors and patients!, i found this app after being diagnosed with stage iv metastatic breast cancer. i love how you can track how you’re feeling/doing every day and there’s options to help deal with what you’re going through. it’s very encouraging to get notifications about the latest findings and research being done for metastatic breast cancer. i would suggest this app for everyone dealing with breast cancer !, the developer, outcomes4me inc, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be collected and linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, belong beating cancer together, livingwith®: cancer support, bezzy breast cancer, my breast cancer coach, abridge, cancer symptom tracker][outcomes4me breast cancer care 4+, breast cancer planner, outcomes4me inc, designed for iphone, iphone screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, a way to manage your cancer in the times of technology!!, this app gave me information my doctors didn’t, very helpful and encouraging, app privacy, data linked to you, information, you might also like]‎outcomes4me breast cancer care on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.6 • 65 ratings, 4.6 • 65 ratings, free, free, , , , , , , , , health & fitness, location, contact info, user content, identifiers, usage data, sensitive info, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]