[chemowave is a free health app that makes it easy for cancer patients to track symptoms, medications and key activities to generate personal insights. take control. chemowave is backed by scientific review as a top mobile health application to track patient-reported outcomes for cancer patients. -- think of chemowave as your virtual health advocate that uses artificial intelligence to help you track symptoms, medications and key activities to generate your own personal insights. it helps you manage your daily tasks so you can take control of the ups and downs during treatment and improve your health. -- all new: chemowave pro with weekly "my reports" (sign up now for a free 30 day trial) subscribe to chemowave pro today and get a weekly summary of your data with insights and trends to show you what helps you feel better and fight negative side effects. see engaging charts with things like moods, symptoms, medications, activities, and sleep -- and share ongoing my reports with your doctors to avoid side effects and improve your care. ($4.99 / month, or $24 / 6 months) -- chemowave is a free health app for cancer patients to track symptoms, medications, sleep, steps, and other important activities. chemowave provides people going through cancer with personal insights that enable them to work more effectively with their doctors or care team to better control side effects and symptoms. many treatment side effects (like nausea, constipation, fatigue, hair loss, loss of appetite, dehydration, depression, etc.) can be significantly reduced, if not eliminated altogether while fighting cancer. chemowave is a virtual advocate for cancer patients, a companion helping you do everything in your power to feel better. chemowave empowers cancer patients to: - track: chemowave makes it easy for you to keep record of your physical and emotional wellbeing, tracking things like symptoms, mood, medications, water intake, sleep, and steps (integrated with apple health app) - discover: real-time, personal insights help you identify how your actions are related to your condition and symptoms, so you can take control of your health while facing cancer - share: a reliable account of your treatment experience leads to better collaboration with care providers chemowave features: - update your overall condition: a simple “swipe” is all it takes indicate shifts in how a patient is feeling. users can be specific about their “ups” and “downs” using 0% to 100% scale. - track your symptoms & mood: symptom changes are easy to keep track of using a 5-point “severity” scale, and a list of common symptoms (auto-ordered by severity). “new” symptoms can also be added as you go. - see personalized insights: our ai-enabled personal "my insights" are generated based on your own experiences. you'll discover what's related to your ups and downs and what you can do to take control of your health during cancer. - log activities like medication, steps, sleep: update your activities like sleep, water intake, medications, or steps (automatically integrated with apple healthkit and your health app) - use a quick log to easily track your cancer journey: quickly log the times and details of important activities during treatment. *activities & experience tracking: physical condition shifts mood changes symptoms & side-effects pain occurrences medications appointments, treatments and procedures sleep steps (integrated with apple health app) meals water consumption exercise activities routine activities relaxation activities entertainment activities general notes *users may also track: sleep quality exercise entertainment routine productivity relaxation meals - charts & personal analytics: * interactive charts, automatically updated and personalized to your journey - share: share unique cancer treatment experiences with family, friends, or doctors. ** chemowave does not give medical advice, please consult with your doctor before making any necessary changes to your health plan ** you can find the terms of use in our website https://chemowave.com/terms/, version 3.0.19, + updates to improve user experience + bug fixes and optimizations, 209 ratings, i love this app! one of the worst things about receiving a cancer diagnosis is the overwhelming feeling of hopelessness. you feel like there is nothing you can do. this app changes all that. there are things you can do, like tracking your eating habits, moods, energy level, side effects, etc. and communicating all of the information to your doctor. it not only helps you feel like you are more in control of your situation, but it also helps your doctor provide the most effective treatment possible. healing becomes a team effort. beneficial adjustments to your treatment can be made. god bless the creators of chemowave. it is a great tool that is helping change and save lives., the app has great potential and a firm idea but has been neglected with updates only to keep up with os. the app starts crashing quickly and soon hangs completely, with no response from the developer, at which point your data is hung up inside their system, and your history locked/lost. user interface is overly precise - asking for fine detail rather than allowing quick and useful entry by a stressed-out chemo patient; fields that should be optional are mandatory so they can capture the data to sell, times down to minute level of accuracy requiring tedious scrolling, ui not longer fitting smaller screens, editing entry must be done in order of field entry - cant go back. th e framework is there for a really helpful app but the developers have decided to let it go and automate a blog from the data., i learned of this app on tv & shared it with few friends who experienced chemo for the first time as well as another who's cancer returned. they were both pleasantly surprised how helpful this app was for their personal use (and being in control) as well as for their physicians who had valuable insight of their patient at their finger tips! tracking symptoms and getting ahead of it actually resulted in less unnecessary medications! win win! chemowave puts the patient in control and ahead of the game by managing symptoms like nausea., the developer, treatment technologies & insights, llc, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be collected and linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, albanian, arabic, french, german, hebrew, macedonian, serbian, spanish, wave: health & symptom tracker, belong beating cancer together, american cancer society cancer survivorship care guidelines, nccn patient guides for cancer, livingwith®: cancer support, bezzy breast cancer, my breast cancer coach][chemowave: cancer health diary 12+, cancer symptom tracker, treatment technologies & insights, llc, designed for iphone, iphone screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, amazingly helpful, an old app that is back in beta, none, app privacy, data linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎chemowave: cancer health diary on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.1 • 209 ratings, 4.1 • 209 ratings, free offers in-app purchases, free, offers in-app purchases, , , , , , health & fitness, location, contact info, user content, identifiers, usage data, sensitive info, diagnostics, 1 month $10.99, 6 months $54.99, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]