[belong - beating cancer together is the world's largest social and professional network for managing and navigating cancer treatment. belong aims to improve quality of life and quality of care by connecting patients, caregivers, and leading healthcare professionals. the app is free and anonymous. belong helps you regain control over your life while living with cancer. the belong - beating cancer together app is a unique all-in-one personalized solution, powered by belong.life.  using belong, you will have access to:   • direct chats with world-renowned professional experts, including doctors in various fields, researchers, and other experts who provide you with reliable, educational information.  • a supportive, attentive, and interactive patient community, including a social network of patients and caregivers, tailored to your specific needs, interests and concerns..  • personalized content and updates, as well as treatment navigation tools that provide tips and reminders every step of the way.  • a digital binder to organize your medical documents in one place, that can be shared privately with family members, friends, and medical professionals.  • a free clinical trial matching service that uses machine learning algorithms to analyze and notify you of available and relevant clinical trials around the globe.  be well, live long - belong, version 4.16.41, welcome to belong's latest version! this version contains these changes which will improve your experience with the app: - overall performance enhancements - ui improvements - bug fixes, 2.4k ratings, i absolutely love this app!! it really helps to be able to share your story as we all have one!! the main thing is, we are not alone, this fight is all of us together!! every experience that is shared, fear expressed, hope given, let’s all of us know that there is someone out there that has faced the same cancer demon!!! thank you belong, for giving us a family that bridges the miles, gives us all hope and puts our fears to rest!! thank you jesus, that you are with us every step of the way!!!, i am newly diagnosed with breast cancer that’s still hard to say. and this has helped me so much because it’s helping me gather information on things i need like what to put on my eyelashes so i don’t lose them what to put on my nails so i don’t lose my nails what cream is a put on my breast when i am going through radiation. i would’ve never known what to do it wasn’t for this. so thank you so much., i’m enjoying this site thus far, conversations are meaningful and helpful. the others who engage in conversation are empathic and this adds a balance to the meaning of the site, people helping people !!! god bless all you do, i wish you nothing less than peaceful and happy blessings under the light of heaven !!! 😇😇😇, the developer, belongtail ltd., indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be collected and linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, french, hebrew, spanish, belongms - multiple sclerosis, i-belong, chemowave: cancer health diary, livingwith®: cancer support, bezzy breast cancer, my breast cancer coach, outcomes4me breast cancer care, inspire®][belong beating cancer together 17+, fight cancer more effectively, belongtail ltd., iphone screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, family, extremely helpful to me, quality time, app privacy, data linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎belong beating cancer together on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.9 • 2.4k ratings, 4.9 • 2.4k ratings, free, free, , , , , , , , health & fitness, contact info, contacts, user content, search history, identifiers, usage data, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]