[does using talcum powder raise your risk of ovarian cancer? does having a hysterectomy mean you can’t get the disease? here, an faq., ovarian cancer kills more women than any other cancer of the female reproductive system, according to the american cancer society, yet many women know very little about the risk factors and early warning signs of this potentially serious disease., to answer some frequently asked questions about ovarian cancer, everyday health reviewed the most recent research and enlisted an expert to share her knowledge: shannon westin, md, mph, an associate professor of gynecologic oncology and reproductive medicine at the university of texas md anderson cancer center in houston., related: speaking ovarian cancer: a glossary of formal and informal terms used to describe ovarian cancer tests, treatment, patients, and more, yes, it’s still possible to develop ovarian cancer, or a closely related cancer called primary peritoneal cancer. “your risk depends on the type of hysterectomy you have,” explains dr. westin., a partial hysterectomy (which just removes the uterus) and total hysterectomy (which removes the uterus and cervix) both leave the ovaries intact, which means you can still develop ovarian cancer., a total hysterectomy with salpingo-oophorectomy removes the cervix, uterus, both ovaries, and fallopian tubes. “without ovaries, your risk of developing ovarian cancer is dramatically reduced,” explains westin, but you still have a small risk of developing a type of cancer that looks and acts exactly like ovarian cancer. called primary peritoneal cancer, it affects cells in the peritoneum, a covering that lines the abdominal organs. the risk of primary peritoneal cancer, however, is low — much lower than the lifetime risk of ovarian cancer if the ovaries remain intact., related: complications of ovarian cancer: how does it affect your body in the short and long term?, you’ve probably heard about lawsuits between consumers and powder manufacturers claiming that talc causes ovarian cancer, some of which have been settled with big payouts. but should you really be worried?, the theory behind the potential connection is that if talcum powder is used in the genital area, the powder particles could travel through the vagina, uterus, and fallopian tubes to the ovaries, where they could cause inflammation that might lead to cancer., thus far, studies looking at the association between talc and risk of ovarian cancer have been mixed, with some reporting a slight increase and others not, according to the american cancer society., the largest study to date, published in the january 2020 issue of journal of the american medical association, looked at more than 250,000 women over several decades. the authors concluded that there was no significant association between talc use in the genital area and the likelihood of developing ovarian cancer. but they noted that due to low incidence of ovarian cancer, the study might not have been large enough to pick up a possible small increase in risk., the bottom line? if there is any association between talc and ovarian cancer, the increase in risk for any individual woman is likely to be low., related: immunotherapy for ovarian cancer, soy and ovarian cancer — the combination is a source of confusion. does soy raise risk? is it protective? much of the misunderstanding stems from the fact that soy foods contain isoflavones, which are substances that can act like the hormone estrogen in the body., theoretically, isoflavones could increase a woman’s risk of cancers that are sensitive to estrogen, such as ovarian cancer. but plant estrogens appear to be much weaker than human estrogens. “so far we haven’t seen any association between excess soy intakes and risk of ovarian cancer,” says westin., in fact, there is some evidence that isoflavones might help protect against ovarian cancer, possibly by blocking the more potent natural estrogens in the blood, says the american cancer society. several large population studies have found that women who have high consumption of isoflavones have a relatively low incidence of ovarian cancer. ovarian cancer is also less common in asian countries, where high soy diets are consumed., soy foods, like tofu, tempeh, edamame, miso, and soy milk, are good sources of protein. soy has also been linked to lower rates of heart disease and may help lower cholesterol. if soy also ratchets down risk of ovarian cancer, consider it an added bonus., related: diet and cancer: what you need to know — and eat — to feel your best while fighting cancer, only about 20 percent of ovarian cancers are found at an early stage, when it is easy to treat, before the cancer spreads outside the ovary, the american cancer society says. one reason is that, currently, there is no standard or routine screening test for ovarian cancer., another problem is that early symptoms of ovarian cancer tend to be vague and easy to ignore. “ovarian cancer is known as the silent killer, but frankly it’s not,” says westin. “there are symptoms. it’s just that these symptoms are easy to blow off or attribute to other causes. if you’re feeling bloated or having some abdominal pain, for example, you’re likely to think it’s because of something you ate, or you just need to lose some weight. that’s why ovarian cancer is so tricky.”, what separates early signs of ovarian cancer from other, more benign conditions is their persistence, and their deviation from what’s normal for your body in terms of frequency or severity. if you experience any of the following problems daily, or nearly daily, for two weeks, be sure to bring it up with your doctor:, related: is it ovarian cancer or ibs?, if you're at high risk of ovarian cancer due to an inherited genetic syndrome (such as lynch syndrome), brca gene mutations, or a strong family history of breast and ovarian cancer, your doctor may recommend regular screening with transvaginal ultrasounds (which uses a wand-like device to emit sound waves that generate images of your pelvic organs), as well as ca125 testing (measuring levels of a blood protein that can be abnormally high in women with ovarian cancer)., related: why i had my breasts and fallopian tubes removed due to a gene i inherited from my dad, it’s possible, but not likely. ovarian cysts are small fluid-filled sacs that can develop in or on a woman’s ovaries. most cysts are harmless and occur as a normal part of the process of ovulation (egg release). these are called functional cysts and usually go away within a few months without any treatment., “very rarely, an ovarian cyst can convert into cancer,” says westin. “that’s why if you develop a cyst, your doctor will want to monitor it and make sure it doesn’t continue to grow.” if a cyst starts growing bigger or causing symptoms, your doctor may recommend surgery to remove it., an ovarian cyst can be more concerning in a woman who is no longer ovulating. while most of these cysts are benign, a small number could be cancer. “in a post-menopausal woman, we will move toward surgery much sooner than a woman who is still ovulating,” notes westin. “that being said, the majority of these masses do not turn out to be cancer.”, because some fertility treatments use hormones, there has been some concern that these treatments could increase risk of cancers that are stimulated by these hormones, including ovarian cancer., many studies have examined possible associations between in vitro fertilization (ivf) and the use of fertility drugs like clomid (clomiphene citrate) and ovarian cancer risk. but the results have been conflicting, with some reporting a small increase in risk and some finding no increased risk at all, according to the national cancer institute., right now, the consensus is that any small increased risk of ovarian cancer associated with assisted reproduction is most likely due to the infertility itself, rather than the fertility treatments. “if you don’t get pregnant, you are constantly ovulating and, as a result are exposed to more estrogen than someone who has had pregnancies,” explains westin. some causes of infertility, such as obesity and endometriosis, may also slightly increase ovarian cancer risk., “studies that have only looked at infertile women, comparing those who received fertility treatment to those who did not, have not seen an increased risk of ovarian cancer associated with these treatments,” adds westin., more research is needed, but for now it looks like there is little reason to worry., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy., pain from ovarian cancer can be subtle or extensive, but there are pain management strategies that can help., it’s important to know your ovarian cancer risk when family planning and how a prior diagnosis can affect fertility., effective ovarian cancer treatment requires a cooperative approach. learn about the key healthcare providers who should be on your team., whether you’re in the middle of treatment for ovarian cancer or trying to get your strength back after you’ve completed it, a yoga routine may be just..., new treatments for advanced ovarian cancer are helping some women defy the odds. here’s how one 78-year-old and her doctors have kept hope alive for a..., a pelvic exam is usually the first step, followed by blood tests, imaging tests, and surgery., treated at its earliest stage, ovarian cancer has a high survival rate. but women and their doctors often fail to recognize the symptoms, leading to missed..., by subscribing you agree to the terms of use and privacy policy.][6 common questions about ovarian cancer, answered, is getting ovarian cancer after a hysterectomy still possible?, does talcum powder cause ovarian cancer?, can eating soy products help ovarian cancer?, is there any way to pick up ovarian cancer early?, can ovarian cysts become cancerous?, do fertility treatments raise your ovarian cancer risk?, the latest in ovarian cancer, finding a cancer diagnosis and coping with infertility, ovarian cancer pain: what it feels like, what causes it, and how women manage it, ovarian cancer and pregnancy: what you need to know, meet your ovarian cancer healthcare team, yoga for ovarian cancer: poses that benefit your health during and after treatment, ovarian cancer awareness month: september 2020, ovarian cancer survivor stories, ovarian cancer: how is ovarian cancer diagnosed?, your everyday guide to living well with ovarian cancer, with ovarian cancer, early detection is key. why is it so hard?, ovarian cancer: myths vs. facts, what is colon and rectal cancer? symptoms, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, biden relaunches cancer moonshot program with pledge to “end cancer as we know it’]ovarian cancer: common questions |everyday health[related:, speaking ovarian cancer: a glossary of formal and informal terms used to describe ovarian cancer tests, treatment, patients, and more, related:, complications of ovarian cancer: how does it affect your body in the short and long term?, related: , immunotherapy for ovarian cancer, related:, diet and cancer: what you need to know — and eat — to feel your best while fighting cancer, related:, is it ovarian cancer or ibs?, related:, why i had my breasts and fallopian tubes removed due to a gene i inherited from my dad, can ovarian cysts become cancerous?, do fertility treatments raise your ovarian cancer risk?][cancer, cold & flu, crohn's disease, depression, eczema, multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, type 2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, see all, sleep, stress, emotional wellness, alternative therapies, fitness, sex & relationships, healthy skin, resilience, special reports, see all, ketogenic diet, intermittent fasting, paleo diet, mediterranean diet, low-carb diet, atkins diet, dash diet, mind diet, see all, symptom checker, drugs & supplements, hydration calculator, dailyom wellness courses, bloating, pelvic or abdominal (belly) pain, upset stomach, constipation, trouble eating or feeling full quickly, urinary symptoms such as urgency (always feeling like you have to go) or frequency (having to go often), extreme tiredness, back pain, pain during sex, about us, careers, editorial policy, newsletters, privacy policy, health news, accessibility statement, terms of use, contact us, feedback, do not sell my personal information, popular topics, adchoices]