[under the gdpr, individuals whose personal data is being processed by an organization that has an establishment in the european union, or individuals who are in the european union, have certain rights to make what are called data subject requests., under the ccpa, consumers residing in california, have certain rights to make verified requests., is committed to protecting our users' privacy. in order to simplify the process of issuing such requests, and to make doubly sure that we respond as rapidly as possible, we've created this privacy portal., please complete the following fields and provide as much detail as you can. after clicking "submit," you'll be sent an email with a link to validate your email address., , if you would like more help with our dsar process please email us at privacy@ziffdavis.com.][privacy portal, i want a copy of the personal information has about me., i want a copy of the personal information collected about me., i want a copy of information sold and/or disclosed about me, i am requesting that you erase all personal data concerning me., i am formally objecting to the manner in which my data is processed., i am opting out of the sale of my personal information., i would like my data sent to another controller., the information you have is inaccurate and i am writing to request a correction., i'd like to add restrictions to the way my data is processed., additional information and assistance]gdpr ccpa privacy portal[please submit your email address and you will receive a verification email with a link to continue this process., however, before doing so please note the following:, please submit your email address and you will receive a verification email with a link to continue this process., please submit your email address and you will receive a verification email with a link to continue this process., however, before doing so please note the following:, please submit your email address and you will receive a verification email with a link to continue this process., however, before doing so please note the following:, please submit your email address and you will receive a verification email with a link to continue this process., please submit your email address and you will receive a verification email with a link to continue this process., please submit your email address and you will receive a verification email with a link to continue this process., before providing the information, and for security purposes, we must verify the identity of the person making the request. please submit your email address and you will receive a verification email with a link to continue this process., please submit your email address and you will receive a verification email with a link to continue this process., please submit your email address and you will receive a verification email with a link to continue this process.][if you are requesting information contained in an account at please log into that account to obtain your information., please note that if you want any cookie data or browsing history- this information is available on your computer or laptop or other device. please follow steps outlined here. please also review our cookie policy for your options to control how we and our partners use cookies and similar technologies for advertising. you may stop or restrict cookies and pixel tags on your computer or purge cookies from your browser by adjusting your web browser preferences. however, if you "turn off," purge, or disable cookies or pixel tags, although you may still use the services, you may not be able to use all of the features, functions, or services available on the services. is a member of the digital advertising alliance (“daa”) in the u.s., e.u. and canada: european union and switzerland residents should visit the european daa by clicking here. canadian residents should visit the daa of canada by clicking here. u.s. residents and residents of all other countries or territories not listed above can click here for the daa site to learn more about the use of cookies, your opt-out choices, and more., this information is available on your computer or laptop or other device. please follow steps outlined here., please also review our cookie policy for your options to control how we and our partners use cookies and similar technologies for advertising. you may stop or restrict cookies and pixel tags on your computer or purge cookies from your browser by adjusting your web browser preferences. however, if you "turn off," purge, or disable cookies or pixel tags, although you may still use the services, you may not be able to use all of the features, functions, or services available on the services. is a member of the digital advertising alliance (“daa”) in the u.s., e.u. and canada: european union and switzerland residents should visit the european daa by clicking here. canadian residents should visit the daa of canada by clicking here. u.s. residents and residents of all other countries or territories not listed above can click here for the daa site to learn more about the use of cookies, your opt-out choices, and more., european union and switzerland residents should visit the european daa by clicking here., canadian residents should visit the daa of canada by clicking here., u.s. residents and residents of all other countries or territories not listed above can click here for the daa site to learn more about the use of cookies, your opt-out choices, and more., the categories of personal information we have collected about you, the specific pieces of personal information we have collected about you, the categories of sources from which the personal information is collected, the business or commercial purpose for collecting or selling personal information, the categories of third parties with whom we share the personal information, if you are requesting information contained in an account at please log into that account to obtain your information., please note that if you want any cookie data or browsing history- this information is available on your computer or laptop or other device. please follow steps outlined here. please also review our cookie policy for your options to control how we and our partners use cookies and similar technologies for advertising. you may stop or restrict cookies and pixel tags on your computer or purge cookies from your browser by adjusting your web browser preferences. however, if you "turn off," purge, or disable cookies or pixel tags, although you may still use the services, you may not be able to use all of the features, functions, or services available on the services. is a member of the digital advertising alliance (“daa”) in the u.s., e.u. and canada: u.s. residents and residents of all other countries or territories not listed above can click here for the daa site to learn more about the use of cookies, your opt-out choices, and more., this information is available on your computer or laptop or other device. please follow steps outlined here., please also review our cookie policy for your options to control how we and our partners use cookies and similar technologies for advertising. you may stop or restrict cookies and pixel tags on your computer or purge cookies from your browser by adjusting your web browser preferences. however, if you "turn off," purge, or disable cookies or pixel tags, although you may still use the services, you may not be able to use all of the features, functions, or services available on the services. is a member of the digital advertising alliance (“daa”) in the u.s., e.u. and canada: u.s. residents and residents of all other countries or territories not listed above can click here for the daa site to learn more about the use of cookies, your opt-out choices, and more., u.s. residents and residents of all other countries or territories not listed above can click here for the daa site to learn more about the use of cookies, your opt-out choices, and more., the categories of personal information we have collected about you, the categories of information we have sold about you and the categories of third parties to whom the personal information was sold to, the categories of personal information we disclosed about you for a business purpose, if you are requesting information contained in an account at please log into that account to obtain your information., please note that if you want any cookie data or browsing history- this information is available on your computer or laptop or other device. please follow steps outlined here. please also review our cookie policy for your options to control how we and our partners use cookies and similar technologies for advertising. you may stop or restrict cookies and pixel tags on your computer or purge cookies from your browser by adjusting your web browser preferences. however, if you "turn off," purge, or disable cookies or pixel tags, although you may still use the services, you may not be able to use all of the features, functions, or services available on the services. is a member of the digital advertising alliance (“daa”) in the u.s., e.u. and canada: u.s. residents and residents of all other countries or territories not listed above can click here for the daa site to learn more about the use of cookies, your opt-out choices, and more., this information is available on your computer or laptop or other device. please follow steps outlined here., please also review our cookie policy for your options to control how we and our partners use cookies and similar technologies for advertising. you may stop or restrict cookies and pixel tags on your computer or purge cookies from your browser by adjusting your web browser preferences. however, if you "turn off," purge, or disable cookies or pixel tags, although you may still use the services, you may not be able to use all of the features, functions, or services available on the services. is a member of the digital advertising alliance (“daa”) in the u.s., e.u. and canada: u.s. residents and residents of all other countries or territories not listed above can click here for the daa site to learn more about the use of cookies, your opt-out choices, and more., u.s. residents and residents of all other countries or territories not listed above can click here for the daa site to learn more about the use of cookies, your opt-out choices, and more.]