[you can control your history and other browsing data, like saved form entries., you can delete all of your data or just some from a specific time., the "advanced" section includes the basic data types, plus the following:, there are other types of data that are related to your behavior online. these other types of data can be deleted separately:, if you're giving away your device, remember to delete your browsing data and then sign out of chrome., if you sync a type of data, deleting it on your android device will delete it everywhere it's synced. it'll be removed from other devices and your google account., instead of deleting entire categories of your browsing data, you can pick items to delete:, deleting info from a device will delete it everywhere it's synced. to delete the data from one device without removing it everywhere:][clear browsing data, what happens to your info, basic, advanced, delete your browsing data, delete individual items, delete from one device]clear browsing data - android - google chrome help[browsing history:, cookies and site data, cookies:, site data:, media licenses:, cached images and files:, saved passwords:, autofill form data:, site settings:, search history & other google activity:, settings, privacy and security , clear browsing data, last hour, all time, clear data][help center, community, google chrome, privacy policy, terms of service, submit feedback, browsing history: clearing your browsing history deletes the following: web addresses you've visited are removed from the history page. shortcuts to those pages are removed from the new tab page. address bar predictions for those websites are no longer shown., web addresses you've visited are removed from the history page., shortcuts to those pages are removed from the new tab page., address bar predictions for those websites are no longer shown., cookies and site data cookies: cookies are files created by websites you visit. they make your online experience easier by saving browsing information. site data: html5-enabled storage types including application caches, web storage data, web sql database data, and indexed database data. media licenses: licenses for html5 protected content, like movies or music that you’ve played or downloaded, are deleted., cookies: cookies are files created by websites you visit. they make your online experience easier by saving browsing information., site data: html5-enabled storage types including application caches, web storage data, web sql database data, and indexed database data., media licenses: licenses for html5 protected content, like movies or music that you’ve played or downloaded, are deleted., cached images and files: chrome remembers parts of pages to help them open faster during your next visit. text and images from pages you've visited in chrome are removed., saved passwords: records of passwords you saved are deleted., autofill form data: your autofill entries are deleted, including addresses and credit cards. cards from your google pay account aren't deleted., site settings: settings and permissions you give to websites are deleted. for example, if a site can run javascript, use your camera, or know your location., search history & other google activity: searches and other activity on google services are saved to your google account. learn how to delete google activity., on your android phone or tablet, open the chrome app ., tap more   settings., tap privacy and security  clear browsing data., choose a time range, like last hour or all time., select the types of information you want to remove., tap clear data., page you visited, downloaded file , saved password, cookies from a website, autofill entry, turn off sync on the device., delete the data from the device., ©2022 google, privacy policy, terms of service]