[please see indications and important safety information, including boxed warning on serious infections and malignancy, for humira (adalimumab) at www.humira.com/important-safety-information. please see important safety information, including boxed warning on serious infections, malignancy, and thrombosis, for rinvoq (upadacitinib) at www.rinvoq.com/important-safety-information. please see important safety information for skyrizi (risankizumab) at www.skyrizi.com/important-safety-information. please see the full prescribing information for humira at www.rxabbvie.com/pdf/humira.pdf, rinvoq at www.rxabbvie.com/pdf/rinvoq_pi.pdf, and skyrizi at www.rxabbvie.com/pdf/skyrizi_pi.pdf. the complete app features personalized injection and symptom logging, medication reminders, and goal setting to support and encourage you throughout treatment. with new indications being added for abbvie products, your complete app keeps you in the know of what humira, rinvoq, and skyrizi can do for you. customized injection logging & training • keep track of when and where you inject either humira or skyrizi on your body. • view your injection history by date with details. tap on a specific date to see injection times, sites, and notes. • personalize how you rotate injection sites in a chronological order. • use in-app videos, training kits, and more to review injection training from your doctor. daily dose tracking for rinvoq patients • make it easier to stick to your treatment plan and track monthly progress with the rinvoq dose tracker. dose reminders & medication trackers • tools to help manage your medication through this free app. set reminders and enable push notifications so you never miss a dose. calendar & activity log • view your injection or medication schedule, symptom history, and a body diagram of injection locations. symptom tracking • keep a log of your symptoms to discuss at your next doctor visit. this may help you have more productive discussions about your treatment. access more complete resources • request resources to support you throughout treatment, like a savings card that may help lower prescription cost. • connect with a dedicated nurse ambassador*, there to provide support and help answer questions. • submit receipts for reimbursement on eligible out-of-pocket expenses through the complete prescription rebate. *nurse ambassadors are provided by abbvie and do not work under the direction of your health care professional (hcp) or give medical advice. they are trained to direct patients to their hcp for treatment-related advice, including further referrals. customized goal tracking for rinvoq patients • set personal goals to focus on something personally meaningful to work toward. personal goals may help motivate and keep you on track with your prescribed treatment plan. additional information if you’re taking humira, skyrizi, or rinvoq, you may want help starting and staying on track with your treatment plan. the complete app can help by providing resources that allow you to set reminders, track symptoms, and create personal goals that can support and encourage you throughout your treatment journey. if you have any questions or concerns with the complete app, or you need to report medication side effects or adverse events, call 1.800.4humira (1.800.448.6472) for humira, 1.866.skyrizi (1.866.759.7494) for skyrizi, and 1-800-2rinvoq (1-800-274-6867) for rinvoq. this app is intended for the exclusive use of u.s. residents 18 years of age and older. the complete app is not intended to provide treatment decisions or replace the care and advice of a licensed healthcare provider. all medical analysis and treatment plans should be performed by a licensed healthcare provider., version 11.0, we’ve expanded the app to include more information on even more conditions. update to the latest version for more personalized resources, treatment tracking, and more., 1.6k ratings, i really enjoy using the app to keep me organized , aware and informative about the medication. the app has taught and re-enforced my learning of the self-administration / injection of my medication. when i begin to wonder about side effects i have resources such as information about the medication and a nurse ambassador. being able to utilize resources that i can contact and connect to verbally and online to answer questions and concerns about the medication or other personal issues i may have experienced is awesome. i like the ability to set reminders to take my medication especially during what can sometimes be a busy day for me. i enjoy being able to request for supplies needed such examples as sharps container and travel kit. i can write about the app all day but to sum things up overall this is a wonderful app, i feel like everyone cares about my wellbeing and it’s user friendly to me because i’m not as familiar with computer technology. i’m thankful that i have access to utilize the app and resources. thanks and blessings for individuals that contribute to making patient/clients to feel less stressed about a health concern., i am very absent minded, and so i was quite happy that the developers made this app to help me keep track of how often i took my humira, the expiration dates and lot numbers, as well as a symptom log. however, it has several major flaws. one is that periodically the humira company would ask me for my most recent lot number and expiration date, which is very very difficult to locate in the app. far more damning, though, is that they do not use apple protocols for backing up data in the app. it does not back up it’s data every time you do a back up of all your other apps on the iphone. it requires its own back up procedure. if we had to do this for every single app we owned, no one would ever back them up. in my case, being unaware that it was not being backed up when i did a full backup, i restored my phone to factory settings and it lost years of data. if both issues were resolved, i would have given a five star rating. it is otherwise an excellent application and i was happy to use it. instead i deleted it from my phone and i’m using a sticky note application to keep this information. it works very well, is synced and backed up, and is easy to retrieve the information quickly. if at some point the developers fix these issues, i would like them to let me know, as i would definitely revise my review. also, i did make them aware that this is a problem., there seems to be all inclusive information available on this app! and i am unbelievably grateful for my personal nurse ambassador, rose. she took me through the complete app step by step so i thoroughly understood how to use it to my advantage so i am successful in my treatment. she has answered all my questions, calmed my nerves, provided information that is supportive, relevant, and done so with kindness, compassion, and true concern for my successful experience and use of humira. i have never felt so honestly cared for from a healthcare provider of any kind in my life. previously, i had an unsuccessful experience with another injectable where there was absolutely no contact or education provided, and i had to seek out information and process on youtubei and my personal pharmacist. i now feel empowered by rose (rosie) to move at a pace that is comfortable to me in terms of obtaining information as well as performing my self injections. i feel that the addition tips and tricks she educated me about will ultimately help me be a successful patient of humira. all of the wonderful resources provided by the humira program that have come to my fronts door have been so helpful as well. thank you humira for the complete app, the education materials, and most of all, for rose! thoughtfully and appreciatively, ann, the developer, abbvie, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be used to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies:, the following data may be collected and linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, abbvie supply chain mobile app, abbvie events app, ibd disk usa, endowheel, ami facial anatomy and cadaver, pss: early id, citus health, cara care: ibs, fodmap tracker, accredo, embark - medication support, bezzy ibd, ingeniorx][complete - medication tracker 17+, abbvie, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, helpful, keeps good records but..., i love this app, app privacy, data used to track you, data linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎complete - medication tracker on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.5 • 1.6k ratings, 4.5 • 1.6k ratings, free, free, iphone, ipad, , , , , , identifiers, usage data, diagnostics, health & fitness, contact info, user content, identifiers, usage data, sensitive info, diagnostics, app support, privacy policy, app support, privacy policy]