[please note: access to the modulife platform is only available through participating trained healthcare providers. modulife is a virtual nutrition and wellness program supporting people with crohn’s disease. modulife is based on the crohn’s disease exclusion diet (cded) designed for the dietary management of crohn’s disease. if you are interested in finding a modulife provider in your area, please visit mymodulife.com. the modulife app provides exclusive access to educational tools, diet tracking, recipes, meal plans, messaging, and more. all of these features can be accessed on-the-go or from the convenience of your home. on-demand education get 24/7 access to educational videos and resources to support your modulife journey. tracking tools log food intake, diet adherence, and well-being to help you stay on track. meal plans view customized daily meal plans designed for your specific diet phase. recipes access hundreds of easy-to-follow cded-friendly recipes. unlimited messaging ask for diet advice anytime through private instant messaging with nutrition specialists. compatible with the apple health app to track activity. users can sync with the apple health app via the ‘devices & settings’ tile. once synced, users can view their steps from apple’s health app under the wellness tracker tile., version 1.24.1, thank you for using modulife! our newest version includes minor bug fixes and performance improvements., 7 ratings, the developer, virtual health partners inc, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be collected and linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, arabic, dutch, french, german, hebrew, italian, polish, portuguese, spanish, vhpgo, my optifast journey, chaise on demand, copes™, uncraverx™, ffc on demand, ibd manager from aga, myibd, kate farms, bezzy ibd, ffsample, naspghan][modulife 17+, crohn’s disease diet support, virtual health partners inc, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, app privacy, data linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎modulife on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 2.7 • 7 ratings, 2.7 • 7 ratings, free, free, iphone, ipad, , , , , , health & fitness, location, contact info, user content, search history, identifiers, usage data, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]