[the fastest way to look up which foods are high, low or medium fodmap foods. 8x faster than the monash university app*. the best way to learn and remember which foods have high, low or medium fodmaps. using modern space repetition learning games to train your brain is fun and effective. the lookup function focuses on just speed and accuracy. the two things that matter most when you are trying to follow a low fodmap lifestyle. as soon as the app launches you can start typing and see the results as you type (an idiom called incremental searching). looking up a food item should not be a pain, it should be fast and effortless. we have found that decreasing effort and friction to lookup foods leads to more lookups per user and greater knowledge and more fodmap friendly dietary choices. * our studies have shown that fast fodmap lookup has, on average, an 8 fold reduction in elapsed time to locate a food's overall fodmap level. other benefits over the monash app: - it works offline (search) - faster and more intuitive diary - powerful weekly meal planner - link with your dietitian for personalized feedback - it is gratis for you fast fodmap may ask for access to your step count data if you are linked with a dietitian who has requested it or you choose to enable step tracking. collection of this data is completely optional. we integrate with apple's health app to achieve this. the data will be handled and used in accordance with nourishly's privacy policy and terms of service., version 3.5.2, account management improvements, 14.2k ratings, i’ve always been one with a sensitive stomach but never researched foods because my lifestyle is busy and i don’t have time to be picky. my doctor recommended a low-fodmap diet a while back but i decided it would be easier to eat what makes me happy and deal with the consequences. i started looking on reddit for others with similar issues and this app was recommended. i’m so grateful i found it!! makes it super easy to do a quick search to plan out meals and avoid certain purchases at the grocery store. would highly recommend!! it’s missing a few items but it covers all the basics and you can understand from context of other items if what you’re searching for is safe to consume or not., i have been using this app for a few weeks and overall find it generally pretty quick and helpful in everyday lifestyle things like shopping and looking up recipe ingredients for cooking at home. in a few weeks i will be starting my reintroduction phase and i can’t seem to find a way to search or sort by the fodmap groups. it would be great to have that feature for example if i started to reintroduce the “f- fermentable” group for a week or maybe the “o- oligosaccahrides”, it would be so helpful to know all the foods that fall in that category because it may not be so intuitive as say generally knowing that onions, apples, broccoli, watermelon, certain cheeses and breads etc are high fodmaps (if i don’t know which fodmap group they fall into). so maybe in an updated version there could be both the red, green, yellow color and then next to it also the acronym letters for fodmap and a filter feature for people who are in elimination and re-introduction phases, or simply trying to figure out which groups cause them problems. thank you., did you try our filter feature that can be found from the top right of the "lookup" screen? i believe it should be enough for your use case., i had no idea how intuitive this app is going to be. i’m using it to track my meals and how i feel/react after meals. i love that you can share your progress and results with team members who may be working with you on your journey. i love that you can simply take a picture of your food, it gets captured with a timestamp , instead of having to write down everything you eat. it all shows neatly in the timeline. i’m starting to use this instead of my other micro nutrient tracking app, the other app has its purpose but this is faster and better for basic food allergy tracking. love the centralize nature of it and how i can add comments and thoughts after each event. my only wish is that there was a way to export the data to pdf or google calendar to share with people who do not have the app., the developer, recovery record, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be collected and linked to your identity:, the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, danish, german, nourishly - nutrition & diet, nourishly for clinicians, diabetes type 2 by nourishly, baritopia: bariatric companion, nourishly for cdes, drink water for life, cara care: ibs, fodmap tracker, sift food labels: scanner, bowelle - the ibs tracker, nerva: ibs & gut hypnotherapy, spoonful: food scanner, my fodmaps: ibs diet guide][fast fodmap lookup & learn 4+, ibs, low fodmap diet companion, recovery record, designed for ipad, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, life saver!!, add filter for reintroduction phase by group, developer response ,, way more than i expected, app privacy, data linked to you, data not linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎fast fodmap lookup & learn on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, #159 in medical, #159 in medical, 4.7 • 14.2k ratings, 4.7 • 14.2k ratings, free, free, ipad, iphone, , , , health & fitness, contact info, user content, identifiers, usage data, diagnostics, app support, privacy policy, app support, privacy policy]