[track injections with copaxone® (glatiramer acetate injection) itracker 2.0. copaxone (glatiramer acetate injection) itracker® 2.0 has many features and resources which have been designed to help you track your past injections and plan for future ones: • injection tracking – easily keep track of when and where you inject on your body • customizable injection settings – select your injection device, method, site, dosage, and schedule • medication reminders – set notifications to remind you when it’s time to take copaxone® (glatiramer acetate injection) • journal & calendar – record injections, notes, and photos within your own personal journal. see past and future injections by using weekly or monthly calendar views • injection reports – view, export, and share a history of your injections, notes, and photos • helpful tips – get useful tips about injection best practices use copaxone® is a prescription medicine that is used to treat relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (ms), to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults. important safety information do not use copaxone® if you are allergic to glatiramer acetate or mannitol. serious side effects may happen right after or within minutes after you inject copaxone® at any time during your course of treatment. call your doctor right away if you have any of these immediate post-injection reaction symptoms including: redness to your cheeks or other parts of the body (flushing); chest pain; fast heart beat; anxiety; breathing problems or tightness in your throat; or swelling, rash, hives, or itching. if you have symptoms of an immediate post-injection reaction, do not give yourself more injections until a doctor tells you to. you can have chest pain as part of an immediate post-injection reaction or by itself. this type of chest pain usually lasts a few minutes and can begin around 1 month after you start using copaxone®. call your doctor right away if you have chest pain while using copaxone®. damage to the fatty tissue just under your skin’s surface (lipoatrophy) and, rarely, death of your skin tissue (necrosis) can happen when you use copaxone®. damage to the fatty tissue under your skin can cause a “dent” at the injection site that may not go away. you can reduce your chance of developing these problems by following your doctor’s instructions for how to use copaxone® and choosing a different injection area each time you use copaxone®. liver problems, including liver failure, can occur with copaxone®. call your healthcare provider right away if you have symptoms, such as nausea, loss of appetite, tiredness, dark colored urine and pale stools, yellowing of your skin or the white part of your eye, bleeding more easily than normal, confusion, or sleepiness. the most common side effects of copaxone® include redness, pain, swelling, itching, or a lump at the injection site; rash; shortness of breath; flushing; and chest pain. tell your doctor if you have any side effect that bothers you or that does not go away. these are not all the possible side effects of copaxone®. for more information, ask your doctor or pharmacist. call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. you are encouraged to report side effects of prescription drugs to the fda. visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call 1-800-fda-1088. please read the patient information in the full prescribing information at www.copaxone.com, version 1.4.2, bug fixes and performance improvements. this version now includes time stamps on all journal entries, in addition to an updated privacy policy and terms of use., 192 ratings, i just downloaded the 2.0 app and tried to start it. i can’t get past the terms of use screens. i scroll to the bottom and push next but nothing happens. the text button doesn’t work. 2 days after above review: the app works now but i do not like it. i’ve used glatiramer injections since 2003, either as the brand or generic product and daily or 3 times a week. the transition to the generic product and new injection regimen was seamless using the first version. the first version is now disabled and i can’t access any of my injection history or notes. the new version has a different configuration on the injection site drawings. for example the abdominal drawing in the old version had 15 injection sites. the new version only has 11 sites so there is no correlation between the two apps. i made a word table that is like the first version so i will use that rather than the 2.0 app. my own table was my reference when i changed to the new app as all my history from first version was lost. without my table i would have had no record of where my last injection was given. this new app was a big disappointment and is not an example of good patient instructions., with the cost of this medication per month you would think they would hire a great app maker but noooo had to go from an ok app we all got used to to this junk , why is it so hard to make an app that simply lets you record and keep track of injections i mean so many more complicated apps out there that are free run way better than this app which cost us patients over thousands of dollars a month in meds . are ya making an app just to shut us up with out thinking about functionality or ease of use ? bad enough we have to struggle with a disease that ya refuse to find a cure to keep us drugged and paying for meds that don’t cure and only have a 33% probability, for the price of medication you’d think it was a cure, the least you can do is make a simple app for us . zero stars, this version of the app is not useful at all. first, i lost all data from the old app. so when i set up the new one, i had to guess where i last injected. not sure why you would do this when we are told over and over again to rotate injection sites. and why would you reduce the number of injection sites?!? makes no sense. i also don’t like the fact that it doesn’t indicate what your last injection sites were in a particular location. and the site has been down, so i had to guess this morning where to inject today. did you even ask for input from people who actually use the medication and the app? it appears not based on reviews. i just started to use the app, but at this point, pretty sure i will find more not to like about., the developer, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc., indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, tevascience, teva cuidar, teva pharmaceuticals event app, dolirapp méxico, digihaler®, teva meetings, bezzy ms, injection reminder, aby, left side right, realtalk ms, belongms - multiple sclerosis][copaxone itracker® 2.0 17+, injection tracking tool, teva pharmaceuticals usa, inc., iphone screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, new app won’t open, cost of medicine thousands of dollars, not a good app!, app privacy, data not linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎copaxone itracker® 2.0 on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 1.5 • 192 ratings, 1.5 • 192 ratings, free, free, , , , , , , usage data, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]