[please log in with your email address or username and password., doi https://doi.org/10.21552/edpl/2017/3/9, loading..., on the internet, we encounter take-it-or-leave-it choices regarding our privacy on a daily basis. in europe, online tracking for targeted advertising generally requires the internet users’ consent to be lawful. some websites use a tracking wall, a barrier that visitors can only pass if they consent to tracking by third parties. when confronted with such a tracking wall, many people click ‘i agree’ to tracking. a survey that we conducted shows that most people find tracking walls unfair and unacceptable. we analyse under which conditions the eprivacy directive and the general data protection regulation allow tracking walls. we provide a list of circumstances to assess when a tracking wall makes consent invalid. we also explore how the eu lawmaker could regulate tracking walls, for instance in the eprivacy regulation. it should be seriously considered to ban tracking walls, at least in certain circumstances., dr frederik j zuiderveen borgesius is a researcher at the institute for information law (ivir) of the university of amsterdam. dr sanne kruikemeier is assistant professor political communication and journalism at the amsterdam school of communication research (ascor) of the university of amsterdam. dr sophie c boerman is assistant professor of persuasive communication at the amsterdam school of communication research (ascor) of the university of amsterdam. prof dr natatali helberger is professor information law at the institute for information law (ivir) of the university of amsterdam. for correspondence: <mailto:f.j.zuiderveenborgesius@uva.nl> all authors cooperate in the personalised communication project <http://personalised-communication.net>. the research for this article was made possible with the help of research funding from the university of amsterdam (personalised communication - pi’s prof dr claes de vreese and prof dr natali helberger), and a research grant from the european research council, erc, under grant 638514 (personews - pi n helberger). the authors would like to thank joyce neys, candida leone, sarah eskens, the participants in the discussion at the tprc 44th research conference on communications, information and internet policy, washington (october 2016), and the anonymous peer reviewers for their valuable comments on drafts for this paper.][edpl - european data protection law review, tracking walls, take-it-or-leave-it choices, the gdpr, and the eprivacy regulation, related content, share, lx-number search, cite this article, export citation]edpl - european data protection law review: tracking walls, take-it-or-leave-it choices, the gdpr, and the eprivacy regulation[][, register, login, en de en, de, en, home, journals abfallr - zeitschrift für das recht der abfallwirtschaft cclr - carbon & climate law review core - european competition and regulatory law review delphi - interdisciplinary review of emerging technologies edpl - european data protection law review effl - european food and feed law review ehpl - european health & pharmaceutical law review enlr - european networks law & regulation quarterly eplr - european pharmaceutical law review epppl - european procurement & public private partnership law review estal - european state aid law quarterly estif - european structural and investment funds journal eurup - zeitschrift für europäisches umwelt- und planungsrecht i+e - zeitschrift für immissionsschutzrecht und emissionshandel icrl – international chemical regulatory and law review stoffr - zeitschrift für stoffrecht uwp - umweltrechtliche beiträge aus wissenschaft und praxis w+b - zeitschrift für deutsches und europäisches wasser-, abwasser- und bodenschutzrecht, abfallr - zeitschrift für das recht der abfallwirtschaft, cclr - carbon & climate law review, core - european competition and regulatory law review, delphi - interdisciplinary review of emerging technologies, edpl - european data protection law review, effl - european food and feed law review, ehpl - european health & pharmaceutical law review, enlr - european networks law & regulation quarterly, eplr - european pharmaceutical law review, epppl - european procurement & public private partnership law review, estal - european state aid law quarterly, estif - european structural and investment funds journal, eurup - zeitschrift für europäisches umwelt- und planungsrecht, i+e - zeitschrift für immissionsschutzrecht und emissionshandel, icrl – international chemical regulatory and law review, stoffr - zeitschrift für stoffrecht, uwp - umweltrechtliche beiträge aus wissenschaft und praxis, w+b - zeitschrift für deutsches und europäisches wasser-, abwasser- und bodenschutzrecht, books, events, contact, european data protection law review, recent issue, all issues, about this journal, subscription / shop, european data protection law review, >, volume 3 (2017), issue 3, vol. 3 (2017), no. 3, >, pages 353 - 368, pp. 353 - 368, , full text (pdf), full text (html), get access, abstract, author info, email, facebook, linkedin, twitter, apa, bibtex, endnote, ris, impressum, terms and conditions, data protection, advertising rates, contact]