[this is the most convenient way to access the realtalk ms podcast on your phone. with this app you are always connected to the latest episodes and the show. you can also star your favorite episodes and save them to a list so you can easily enjoy them over and over! this app is complete access to realtalk ms and if you're a fan of the show you won't want to be without it! this app contains the following additional features: * streaming access to play episodes from anywhere * always updated with the latest episodes- and an archived back catalog * playback resume (when interrupted by a call or other distraction) * access to exclusive extras like pdfs, wallpapers, and bonus content * quick access to all the contact methods for the show like call, email, web, facebook, and twitter thank you for downloading this app and supporting the show!, version 2.5.85, this update includes minor bug updates., 151 ratings, i find your pod cast very informative n have helped me make decisions basted on the information you offer. i gained more confidence to deal with my ms n it’s therapies n also look into integrated therapies also being i have had it since i’m 16 n now am 55 ., i’ve been diagnosed with ms in 2010. i was not sure of the correlation between the three ms diagnosis and where i was amongst them. this was the first podcast i listened too and it was astounding. it answered all my questions. thank you!, jon does a great job reporting on new studies and providing practical advice with relevant guests. jon’s passion comes from the way ms changed his life. i would love to learn me about how more people can become activists. please keep up the good work., the developer, jon strum, has not provided details about its privacy practices and handling of data to apple. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the developer will be required to provide privacy details when they submit their next app update., english, bezzy ms, ms care connect, pre-meet: multiple sclerosis, mscorner: health manager & log, belongms - multiple sclerosis, myvumerity][realtalk ms 17+, jon strum, designed for ipad, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, excellent pod cast, progressive ms podcast, good info, app privacy, no details provided, information, you might also like]‎realtalk ms on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.8 • 151 ratings, 4.8 • 151 ratings, free, free, ipad, iphone, , , , developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]