[pre-meet: multiple sclerosis is designed to help patients who have been referred to a multiple sclerosis specialist by helping them prepare before their appointment, know what to expect during their examination, and learn crucial next steps to follow depending on the outcome of the appointment. within the u.s., over 250,000 new patients visits occur annually for multiple sclerosis. furthermore, multiple sclerosis has surpassed traumatic events (i.e. motor vehicle accidents) as the number one reason why young individuals throughout the world are disabled. approximately 400,000-450,000 americans and greater than 2.5 million people worldwide have multiple sclerosis and frequently these patients seek opinions from new healthcare providers. multiple sclerosis is an extremely complex and enigmatic chronic disease with no cure. therefore, one can imagine how nerve wracking and daunting a simple referral is to a multiple sclerosis specialist, even before a diagnosis has been made. this app helps calm the many patients who are referred to a ms specialist who feel anxious and scared before their appointment. furthermore, the app provides valuable insights into each step of the neurological examination and outlines key next steps to take after the appointment, including a general overview of multiple sclerosis and ms relapses. ultimately, this app helps patients feel more in-control of their health appointment. the app also provides guidance for those who may not be diagnosed with multiple sclerosis after the initial consultation. the contents of the app were drawn from real life situations of patients showing up to appointments widely late without necessary medical records and results. this is at no fault to the patient as often the patient was never informed about the items necessary to bring, when to arrive at their appointment, or the status of the records they previously sent. when patients are informed, clinics can run more efficiently and patients have more productive and positive healthcare experiences. pre-meet: multiple sclerosis is the first app of a “pre-meet” series that will address the specific ways to prepare for a variety of specialty medical appointments like neurology, dermatology, cardiology, etc. designed by specialists within each field, the content of these apps will include crucial information patients need to know before, during, and after their appointment that cannot be found via an online resource or in hard copy., version 2.0.1, this app has been updated by apple to display the apple watch app icon. new modern ui!, 23 ratings, i remember the day i was told i had ms. the emotions were suffocating and the fear and uncertainty was overwhelming. even with family support, the one thing i wish i had earlier, were answers. this app is just that. it’s an incredible resource, answering all the questions that raced through my mind. it helps you understand what the disease is, sets expectations, and gets you focused on finding treatment. the design is accessible and the information is very well researched and easily accessible. much care and attention has been put into this app. if you have ms, and are looking for answers - or you are a medical professional and want to provide an impeccable resource for patients - this is that resource. highly recommended., this app is a game changer for ms patients. one of the most challenging times for an ms patient is right after diagnosis, when there is nothing but uncertainty, fear, and an intense hunger for information. it's hard to know what to expect, what questions to ask, and who to talk to. that's where pre-meet comes in, it's a real-world guide to navigating those first physician visits and lays out a path for patients to follow to help maximize their time in each doctor's visit. knowledge is power and pre-meet is the best resource an ms patient has to help gain the knowledge they need to tackle ms head on., when i explored this app, i realized it was like having my own dedicated coach to help me navigate my treatment process. this app answered questions i hadn't thought of yet, as i was feeling overwhelmed by my health situation. it saved me so much time from having to go back and address these questions later. it also gave me some kind of standard to have for my physician and treatment process. it's patient focused, discussing cost vs. value. love, love this app!, the developer, darin okuda, has not provided details about its privacy practices and handling of data to apple. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the developer will be required to provide privacy details when they submit their next app update., english, understanding mri: ms, ms relapse tool, plant process, neurons, ms care connect, ms attack, realtalk ms, mscorner: health manager & log, multiple sclerosis @poc][pre-meet: multiple sclerosis 12+, darin okuda, designed for iphone, iphone screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, must-have for ms patients, incredible resource, your own ms coach!, app privacy, no details provided, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎pre-meet: multiple sclerosis on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 5.0 • 23 ratings, 5.0 • 23 ratings, free, free, , , , , , developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]