[meet aby, an app created for people living with ms & the people who support them. with aby, you will have: * access to a nurse educator to answer questions you may have about living with multiple sclerosis * tailored content to find tips, inspiration and news related to multiple sclerosis * a personal journal to keep track of your health, visualize your data and share reports with your healthcare team * wellness programs designed by healthcare professionals tailored to your specific needs remember, your healthcare team should always be your primary source for any information or questions. we understand that living with multiple sclerosis may present unique challenges that others do not typically face on a daily basis. meet aby, your digital ms app and support companion! aby was designed for people living with ms and the people who support them. with aby, you will have access to a variety of tools and resources, conveniently accessible in one app. our goal is to provide a valuable ms app to help you and your healthcare team. we’re here to support you along your journey – and now, anywhere you are. key features: 1. access to a nurse educator to answer questions you may have about multiple sclerosis 2. tailored content to find tips, inspiration and news related to multiple sclerosis 3. a personal journal to keep track of your health, visualize your data and share reports with your healthcare team 4. wellness programs designed by healthcare professionals tailored to your specific needs nurse educator support connect with nurse educators who have extensive knowledge of ms, directly in the app. while your healthcare team should be your primary source of information for any questions or concerns you may have, our nurse educators are also available to answer your ms-related questions. ms-related information explore articles and videos with tips for living with ms, suggestions for staying active, information about common ms symptoms, and ms disease education. customize the type of content you’re interested in seeing for a more personalized experience. personal journal when your healthcare team better understands what goes on between appointments, you can make better treatment decisions together. aby can help you keep track of your moods, symptoms, physical activities, and more. link aby to your apple healthkit to track steps and distance. then create reports to share and discuss with your healthcare team. appointment & medication reminders we all have a lot of our minds, so use aby to help provide reminders for you throughout the day. set up appointment and medication notifications based on schedules discussed with your healthcare team. wellness programs access different exercise and wellness programs. we worked with healthcare specialists to create exercise programs that have people living with ms in mind. after talking to your healthcare team, you can choose from different levels of intensity based on your ability and comfort level. remember, everyone’s experience with ms is different, and your healthcare team should always be your primary source for any information about your ms. remember, your healthcare team should always be your primary source for any information or questions, version 1.12.2, thank you for using aby! we made improvements to the app and fixed some bugs. we hope you like it!, 47 ratings, there is no user guide or quick tips so learning how to use it was challenging at first. now, there was a major update-with bugs. to update a day, selecting the new level of a feature changes the data from the prior day not the desired day. one can only select 1 level for each feature. it used be select all that apply even if we recreate the no longer supported activities feature, one can only choose 1 most of us are still able to do multiple tasks and would rather not have to make 2-3 pages of. symptoms to click. the customize feature is much needed update., this app is great when it works. about every third day or so, it will not load for some reason. but when it is working it is very helpful., thank you for sharing your feedback. we recently released the new 1.5.6 version which resolves the technical issues you mention. please update your app and try aby again., i was kind of excited to use this - the journal seems helpful but time will tell. it’s pretty basic and i don’t know how it will determine correlations. the one really extremely disappointing thing about the app is i wanted to use the reminders for treatments. unfortunately the only option is for daily treatments - 1 to 8 times a day. hey biogen - you know that your own company makes treatments that are once a month or once ever 6 weeks, once a week, once every 2 weeks! this is ms dmt information level 101. how could you develop an app that doesn’t allow for those variations? subsequently this is really unhelpful. major bummer., hello, thank you for sharing your time and thoughts on the app. you are able to set weekly or monthly reminders after you select how many times a day you take a dose of the specific treatment. if you need any further assistance please contact us at contact@aby-app.com and we will be more than happy to assist you! have a nice day, aby’s team, the developer, biogen inc., indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be collected and linked to your identity:, the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, dutch, french, german, italian, japanese, polish, portuguese, spanish, neurodiem, myvumerity, konectom suite, smability tracker, bezzy ms, accredo, copaxone itracker® 2.0, realtalk ms, epsy: seizure log for epilepsy, belongms - multiple sclerosis][aby 17+, app to support your ms journey, biogen inc., designed for ipad, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, lots of useful features but confusing, loading issues, developer response ,, disappointing, developer response ,, app privacy, data linked to you, data not linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎aby on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 3.5 • 47 ratings, 3.5 • 47 ratings, free, free, ipad, iphone, , , , , , health & fitness, contact info, user content, identifiers, usage data, diagnostics, diagnostics, app support, privacy policy, app support, privacy policy]