[myvumerity is an app brought to you by biogen that can help you keep track of your vumerity (diroximel fumarate) treatment. download the application to: * track daily doses * set up personalized treatment reminders * keep track of your lab tests * access your activity log on the go by using myvumerity on a regular basis, you can keep track of your vumerity treatment and better prepare for a productive conversation with your healthcare provider. for important safety information, please see full prescribing information at https://www.vumerity.com/pdfs/full-prescribing-info.pdf and patient information at https://www.vumerity.com/pdfs/patient-information.pdf. this is not intended to replace discussions with your healthcare provider., version 2.0.2, bug fixes and updates., 10 ratings, the app works well for reminders to take the doses but i can easily just set a reminder on my phone. i would like a more interactive app. something to keep me interested., if i take my dose, but don’t log it, the app shows it as a missed dose and i can’t seem to change it to reflect that i did take the dose. if that feature does exist, it isn’t intuitive. this app could be simplified for recording doses by date and labs by date (and allow backdating) with basic reminders for dosing times. all the bot-narration is unnecessary. i can use my calendar or other apps more accurately and simply to record my doses. app deleted., what is the use in this app if you can’t simple edit a dose you forgot to log and it permanently looks like you missed a dose? so basic., the developer, biogen inc., has not provided details about its privacy practices and handling of data to apple. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the developer will be required to provide privacy details when they submit their next app update., english, aby, neurodiem, konectom suite, smability tracker, bezzy ms, pillsy, ms care connect, copaxone itracker® 2.0, realtalk ms, belongms - multiple sclerosis][myvumerity 17+, biogen inc., designed for iphone, iphone screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, i want more!, can’t record past doses, useless, app privacy, no details provided, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎myvumerity on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 3.6 • 10 ratings, 3.6 • 10 ratings, free, free, , , , , developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]