[the kids are not alright. find strategies and resources to support young people’s mental well-being., psych central spoke with dr. vivek murthy about the youth mental health crisis, the challenges youth are facing, and how we can support our kids and address healthcare inequalities., reading to support kids and teens in tough times., exploring the mental health challenges facing young people today., it's time to talk about mental health with resources, tips, tools, and support., colton underwood, gabriella wright, and dan payne share their tips., social media isn't going away. how can young people make it work for them?, we all need a social media break from time to time. join us for a little breather!, parents have had a fuller than full plate the last few years. now it's time to focus on…, new laws and policies restricting rights and denying access to care for lgbtqia+ young…, social and emotional learning is an important tool to help kids recover from the effects…, just a few hours outside can have a major impact for kids and teens., bookmark this complete guide on types of child therapists and kid-friendly therapies, plus…, no child should ever feel like they have to be resilient in the face of trauma. but there…, fear, sadness, and frustration may abound, but if you look around you can also see…, how to tell if your child's mental health is suffering as a result of the pandemic, and…, teenagers are supposed to be moody, right? learn symptoms of clinical depression plus tips…, wondering why your teen seems so angry lately? get the details on potential causes of teen…, many parents are unsure of what to do when their child has anxiety. these books are a…, recognizing symptoms of mental illness in kids can be tricky. learning more about how…, recognizing the early signs of suicidal thoughts and intentions is an important step to…, cbt is a type of talk therapy that helps people realize the connection between thoughts…, for kids, playing is learning. through play they benefit physically, cognitively, socially,, everyone agrees that treating children early on for mental health issues is crucial, but…, from normalizing talking about feelings to teaching emotional intelligence, how dads…, our brands][youth in focus, featured, social media, support, mental health, read more]youth in focus[][health conditions, discover, plan, connect, shop, life, youth in focus, mind & body, self-care, conditions, therapy, maternal wellness, parenting, crisis support, u.s. surgeon general vivek murthy: how to address the youth mental health crisis psych central spoke with dr. vivek murthy about the youth mental health crisis, the challenges youth are facing, and how we can support our kids and address healthcare inequalities.read more, youth mental wellbeing quiz reading to support kids and teens in tough times.read more, youth in focus: video series exploring the mental health challenges facing young people today.read more, letter from the editors: coming together to support mental well-being it's time to talk about mental health with resources, tips, tools, and support.read more, 7 tips for healthy social media boundaries from celebrities who’ve found balance colton underwood, gabriella wright, and dan payne share their tips. read more, , social media and youth mental health: how to find balance after pandemic spikes in use social media isn't going away. how can young people make it work for them?read more, the benefits of a social media break, plus 30 things to do instead we all need a social media break from time to time. join us for a little breather!read more, from surviving to thriving: helping kids refill their joy tanks after… parents have had a fuller than full plate the last few years. now it's time to focus on…, anti-lgbtq policies are affecting young people’s health: how to help new laws and policies restricting rights and denying access to care for lgbtqia+ young…, why social-emotional learning is so important for kids right now social and emotional learning is an important tool to help kids recover from the effects…, 8 mental health benefits of getting your kids outside, plus tips on… just a few hours outside can have a major impact for kids and teens., choosing the right therapist for your child bookmark this complete guide on types of child therapists and kid-friendly therapies, plus…, resilient kids: strengthening your child from the inside out no child should ever feel like they have to be resilient in the face of trauma. but there…, life8 things i want my kids to remember about the time the world shut down fear, sadness, and frustration may abound, but if you look around you can also see…, 12 signs your child’s mental health is suffering, plus 6 coping… how to tell if your child's mental health is suffering as a result of the pandemic, and…, is my teenager depressed or moody? teenagers are supposed to be moody, right? learn symptoms of clinical depression plus tips…, living with an angry teenager? how to support them — and yourself wondering why your teen seems so angry lately? get the details on potential causes of teen…, the 18 best books about anxiety for kids of all ages and their parents many parents are unsure of what to do when their child has anxiety. these books are a…, bellyache or depression? how to recognize mental health conditions in… recognizing symptoms of mental illness in kids can be tricky. learning more about how…, addressing signs of suicidal behavior in children and teens recognizing the early signs of suicidal thoughts and intentions is an important step to…, health & well-beinghow is cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) different for kids? cbt is a type of talk therapy that helps people realize the connection between thoughts…, lifethe importance of play: how kids learn by having fun for kids, playing is learning. through play they benefit physically, cognitively, socially,, why early intervention is so important for children’s mental health… everyone agrees that treating children early on for mental health issues is crucial, but…, dads can make a big difference in how kids learn about mental health from normalizing talking about feelings to teaching emotional intelligence, how dads…, about us, contact us, privacy policy, privacy settings, advertising policy, health topics, medical affairs, content integrity, newsletters, © 2005-2022 healthline media a red ventures company. all rights reserved. our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. healthline media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. see additional information.]