[if you have severe asthma, check out this infographic to learn six ways you can reduce symptoms, including exercising regularly and avoiding irritants., joining a support group for severe asthma can give you an opportunity to connect with others who truly get what you're going through. here's where to find one., symptoms of a severe asthma attack might be similar to symptoms of a minor attack. the difference is that severe attacks don’t improve with home treatment., as a friend or loved one of someone with severe asthma, you can offer continued support. at the same time, it’s important to know what not to say to someone with severe asthma., asthma can be considered severe when it's either not well controlled, or has to be controlled with high doses of asthma drugs. here's what you need to know., if you experience an asthma attack that doesn't improve with treatments at home, you may need to go to the hospital. find out what treatments you can expect to receive while there, and what the recovery period is like., if you live alone and have severe asthma, it's important to be prepared should you experience a flare-up or asthma attack. learn what you can do to be ready for any situation., our brands][your severe asthma wellness guide]taking the next step with severe asthma | healthline[][health conditions, discover, plan, connect, shop, 6 ways to reduce symptoms and flares of severe asthma if you have severe asthma, check out this infographic to learn six ways you can reduce symptoms, including exercising regularly and avoiding irritants.read more, , where to find support groups for severe asthma joining a support group for severe asthma can give you an opportunity to connect with others who truly get what you're going through. here's where to find one.read more, everything you need to know about severe asthma attacks symptoms of a severe asthma attack might be similar to symptoms of a minor attack. the difference is that severe attacks don’t improve with home treatment.read more, 7 things never to say to someone with severe asthma as a friend or loved one of someone with severe asthma, you can offer continued support. at the same time, it’s important to know what not to say to someone with severe asthma.read more, severe asthma asthma can be considered severe when it's either not well controlled, or has to be controlled with high doses of asthma drugs. here's what you need to know.read more, what to expect at the hospital after a severe asthma attack if you experience an asthma attack that doesn't improve with treatments at home, you may need to go to the hospital. find out what treatments you can expect to receive while there, and what the recovery period is like.read more, managing asthma when you live alone if you live alone and have severe asthma, it's important to be prepared should you experience a flare-up or asthma attack. learn what you can do to be ready for any situation.read more, about us, contact us, privacy policy, privacy settings, advertising policy, health topics, medical affairs, content integrity, newsletters, © 2005-2022 healthline media a red ventures company. all rights reserved. our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. healthline media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. see additional information.]