[focusing on self-care can help you manage chronic kidney disease. try these self-care tips., how do diabetes and hypertension affect kidney health? what symptoms of chronic kidney disease should you know about? an expert answers questions., living with chronic kidney disease (ckd) can increase your risk of stress, anxiety, and depression. learn how ckd can impact your mental health and what you can do to cope., if you have kidney failure, your kidneys are no longer able to filter waste and excess fluid from your blood. learn more about kidney failure symptoms, prognosis, and treatment options., if you're living with chronic kidney disease, you may need to reduce your dietary sodium intake. learn how sodium affects your kidneys and find ways to cut back on salt in your diet., there are 5 stages of chronic kidney disease. in stage 4, you have severe, irreversible damage to the kidneys. learn about the symptoms, complications, and steps you can take to slow or prevent progression to kidney failure., there are 5 stages of chronic kidney disease. while it's a progressive disease, not everyone will go on to develop kidney failure. learn more., chronic kidney disease (ckd) is progressive and irreversible damage to the kidneys. the most common causes of ckd are high blood pressure and diabetes., chronic kidney disease affects about 37 million people in the united states and 90 percent of them don't know they have it., in end-stage kidney disease, also known as end-stage renal disease (esrd), the kidneys are functioning below 10 percent of their normal function., from support groups to financial assistance programs, there are resources available to help you manage life with chronic kidney disease., covid-19 has been shown to harm the kidneys in some cases and may lead to serious illness in those with existing kidney disease. learn how covid-19 can affect the kidneys, how to stay safe while managing ckd, and more., our brands][your ckd wellness guide]living with chronic kidney disease[][health conditions, discover, plan, connect, shop, 7 self-care tips for chronic kidney disease focusing on self-care can help you manage chronic kidney disease. try these self-care tips.read more, , ask the expert: the link between chronic kidney disease, diabetes, and… how do diabetes and hypertension affect kidney health? what symptoms of chronic kidney disease should you know about? an expert answers questions.read more, mental health spotlight: how chronic kidney disease can impact your… living with chronic kidney disease (ckd) can increase your risk of stress, anxiety, and depression. learn how ckd can impact your mental health and what you can do to cope.read more, your faqs answered: what happens if my kidneys fail? if you have kidney failure, your kidneys are no longer able to filter waste and excess fluid from your blood. learn more about kidney failure symptoms, prognosis, and treatment options.read more, what you need to know about sodium if you have chronic kidney disease if you're living with chronic kidney disease, you may need to reduce your dietary sodium intake. learn how sodium affects your kidneys and find ways to cut back on salt in your diet.read more, what to know about stage 4 kidney disease there are 5 stages of chronic kidney disease. in stage 4, you have severe, irreversible damage to the kidneys. learn about the symptoms, complications, and steps you can take to slow or prevent progression to kidney failure.read more, stages of chronic kidney disease there are 5 stages of chronic kidney disease. while it's a progressive disease, not everyone will go on to develop kidney failure. learn more.read more, chronic kidney disease chronic kidney disease (ckd) is progressive and irreversible damage to the kidneys. the most common causes of ckd are high blood pressure and diabetes.read more, 1 in 7 adults are unaware they have chronic kidney disease chronic kidney disease affects about 37 million people in the united states and 90 percent of them don't know they have it.read more, what you need to know about end-stage kidney disease (esrd) in end-stage kidney disease, also known as end-stage renal disease (esrd), the kidneys are functioning below 10 percent of their normal function.read more, finding support when living with chronic kidney disease from support groups to financial assistance programs, there are resources available to help you manage life with chronic kidney disease.read more, managing chronic kidney disease in the time of covid-19 covid-19 has been shown to harm the kidneys in some cases and may lead to serious illness in those with existing kidney disease. learn how covid-19 can affect the kidneys, how to stay safe while managing ckd, and more.read more, about us, contact us, privacy policy, privacy settings, advertising policy, health topics, medical affairs, content integrity, newsletters, © 2005-2022 healthline media a red ventures company. all rights reserved. our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. healthline media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. see additional information.]