[this article examines what adhd coaching is, where to find a coach, what to look for and questions to ask. find out more about how it works here., an organized backpack can help kids with adhd feel more prepared and successful at school. try these 10 tips to help your child get organized., as video games grow in popularity, more parents are raising concerns about their impact on kids' attention spans. here's what the latest research shows., try these 10 tips to set boundaries, make positive use of technology, and establish screen time rules that will work for your family., try these six tips to help your child with adhd have a smooth start to the school year., a review of the latest research on the potential concerns and benefits of video games for those diagnosed with adhd., could a brain workout be just what the doctor ordered for adhd?, raising a child with adhd isn’t like traditional childrearing. normal rule-making and household routines can become almost impossible, so you’ll need to adopt different approaches., many preschoolers with adhd — or symptoms of it — are much less likely than their peers to be ready for school, a study in pediatrics found., medication is a common treatment for adhd symptoms. there are several medications prescribed to treat symptoms, but they do come with some risks., a boston biotech firm has introduced a game it says is a “digital therapeutic” for adhd behavior. however, experts are skeptical of its potential effectiveness., our brands][more on support and strategies for parenting your child with adhd]support and strategies for parenting your child with adhd[][health conditions, discover, plan, connect, shop, sex qs, identity, pleasure, birth control, relationships, could an adhd coach help your family? this article examines what adhd coaching is, where to find a coach, what to look for and questions to ask. find out more about how it works here. read more, , 10 school backpack tips for your child with adhd an organized backpack can help kids with adhd feel more prepared and successful at school. try these 10 tips to help your child get organized. read more, what science says about video games and adhd as video games grow in popularity, more parents are raising concerns about their impact on kids' attention spans. here's what the latest research shows.read more, 10 tips for helping kids with adhd manage screen time try these 10 tips to set boundaries, make positive use of technology, and establish screen time rules that will work for your family. read more, adhd and the classroom: 6 tips to prep try these six tips to help your child with adhd have a smooth start to the school year. read more, video games and adhd: the latest in research a review of the latest research on the potential concerns and benefits of video games for those diagnosed with adhd. read more, adhd brain training: can ‘exercising’ your brain help with attention and focus? could a brain workout be just what the doctor ordered for adhd?read more, parenting tips for adhd: do’s and don’ts raising a child with adhd isn’t like traditional childrearing. normal rule-making and household routines can become almost impossible, so you’ll need to adopt different approaches.read more, how parents can get kids with adhd prepared to start school many preschoolers with adhd — or symptoms of it — are much less likely than their peers to be ready for school, a study in pediatrics found.read more, adhd medication for children medication is a common treatment for adhd symptoms. there are several medications prescribed to treat symptoms, but they do come with some risks.read more, can a ‘prescription video game’ help children with adhd? a boston biotech firm has introduced a game it says is a “digital therapeutic” for adhd behavior. however, experts are skeptical of its potential effectiveness.read more, about us, contact us, privacy policy, privacy settings, advertising policy, health topics, medical affairs, content integrity, newsletters, © 2005-2022 healthline media a red ventures company. all rights reserved. our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. healthline media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. see additional information.]