[hearst live can bring your brand to life. whether you're partnering with us at one of our flagship events or looking for a bespoke solution, we deliver premium, content-led, virtual and hybrid experiences that can be amplified by our brands., virtual event attendees, events per year, in- house experts, #getfitdone, when it comes to your content strategy, our world-class editorial teams are here with the insight and expertise to help, from advice on relevant trends to creating agenda-setting content., the event is just the start. we'll also amplify your work across our most-relevant platforms. and with 20+ trusted brands to choose from, a host of connected editors, and an extensive influencer network, our reach is unmatched., our in-house team are among the best in the world, with the awards to prove it. hailing from publishing, corporate events and sponsorship agencies, they’re here, together, to deliver for your brand., we'll build a full content strategy around your event, including sourcing talent to back your brand. choose to partner with one of our flagship events, and we’ll welcome you into the editorial world around it., we offer bespoke events and experiences to help solve your business challenges. our events team love nothing more than an ambitious brief. plus our wealth of experts can advise on trends relevant to your brand., exciting, informative and star-studded, our iconic flagship events inspire consumers across the uk. partner with one to help push your product, reach new audiences, and increase customer loyalty., we won’t develop an idea only to leave the rest to you. we can do it all, from costing to 3d modelling of the event space, to dressing up the venue to the finest detail. you can rely on us to deliver., come aboard and we'll dispatch one of our brilliant, energetic and passionate team members to project manage your event from conception to execution and everything in between., the event may be a wrap, but we're not finished. we'll produce a full breakdown of how it performed to prove our event not only delivered, but exceeded your objectives., please get in touch using the form below to speak with a member of the hearst solutions team about partnerships., hearst uk is part of the hearst network., get our newsletters in your inbox, sign up, © hearst uk, the national magazine company ltd. registered in england number 112955][breadcrumb, experiential, events that deliver for consumers and brands, stats, women's health live virtual, why hearst live?, partner with us on these flagship events, and more, how can we help you?, let's work together]experiential | hearst[hearst live, please get in touch using the form below to speak with a member of the hearst solutions team about partnerships.][solutions, experiential, solutions, sectors, brands, the beacon, case studies, about us, media centre, careers, sustainability, contact us, newsletters, hearst uk, hearst usa, hearst china, hearst italy, hearst japan, hearst netherlands, hearst spain, hearst taiwan, terms & conditions, privacy policy, cookies policy, advertiser terms, complaints policy, environmental policy, statement of investment principles, modern slavery statement, reports, annual engagement policy implementation statement, solutions, sectors, brands, the beacon, case studies, about us, media centre, careers, sustainability, contact us, newsletters, subscriptions]