[cancer helpline, 800.227.2345, due to covid-19’s disparate and excessive impact on patients with cancer and continuing waves of subvariants, the american cancer society (acs) supports the national comprehensive cancer network’s recommendation that all specified immunocompromised patients receive three mrna doses of the covid-19 primary vaccination series, plus an additional two booster doses. , “because vaccines have been shown to be a safe, effective way to protect against covid-19, we strongly recommend patients with cancer be fully immunized with the recommended booster doses.  this particularly includes those patients who have received cancer treatment in the last year, have a blood cancer, or have undergone stem cell transplant.  with that said, the most effective protection for vaccinated immunocompromised patients is a reduction in community spread through widespread vaccination and the wearing of masks.  it is specifically important that those living or interacting with these patients also practice these recommendations,” said dr. arif kamal, chief patient officer at the american cancer society. , patients with cancer often have weakened immune systems from cancer itself or cancer treatment. this creates an increased risk for covid-19 complications and less protection from vaccines.  acs recommends that fully vaccinated patients with cancer continue to wear masks, maintain social distancing, avoid crowds, and follow additional pre-vaccine recommendations for covid-19 prevention.   , read updated national comprehensive cancer network (nccn) covid-19 vaccination guidelines here.  ,  , news room home, media relations contacts, news releases, our executive leadership, our researchers, social media, news alerts, embargoed password protected site, what causes cancer?, imagine a world free from cancer. help make it a reality., donate, cancer information, answers, and hope. available every minute of every day., © 2017 american cancer society, inc. all rights reserved. the american cancer society is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. cancer.org is provided courtesy of the leo and gloria rosen family.][press releases, 800.227.2345]press releases[, ][latest news, english english español more languages, english, español, more languages, cancer a-z, stay healthy, treatment & support, our research programs, get involved, about us, , , , , , cancer prevention & detection, cancer basics, signs & symptoms of cancer, treatments & side effects, cancer facts & statistics, news and stories, glossary, for health care professionals, breast cancer support, tlc hair loss & mastectomy products, hope lodge® lodging, rides to treatment, online support communities, making strides against breast cancer walks, coaches vs. cancer, relay for life events, college relay for life, donate a car, ways to give, memorial giving, planned giving, leadership giving, contact us, local offices, volunteer, employment, become a supplier, report fraud or abuse, global health, acs can, sign up for email, policies, bookstore, shop, cancer atlas, press room, cancer statistics center, help, site map, privacy, accessibility, terms of use, state fundraising notices, site comments]