[cancer helpline, 800.227.2345,  , for more information, contact:, michele money-carson american cancer society 813.240.0954 michele.money-carson@cancer.org, emily burr american cancer society cancer action network 202-919-3602 emily.burr@cancer.org, washington, d.c. – may 4, 2022 – big tobacco, an industry which has for decades addicted and endangered the lives of millions of americans for their own profit, will finally have to post the truth about their deception and their deadly products where they are sold, if the court accepts a proposed settlement filed by the parties to the case late last night. the agreement in principle finalizes the terms of the corrective statements at point of sale, which will be posted in approximately 200,000 tobacco retail outlets across the nation, ordered as part of the landmark legal decision in the 2006 federal government’s racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act (rico) case against the tobacco industry, us v philip morris. the new agreement covers the design, size, placement, duration, rotation, and auditing procedures for the statements across the country. the filing was made in conjunction with the department of justice (doj), six public health organizations party to the case including the american cancer society, and tobacco manufacturers in advance of a trial scheduled to begin on june 13., the 23-year-old case resulted in the industry having to make corrective statements to prevent future harms after being found guilty of racketeering by deceiving the american public on the harms of tobacco products. the statements have already appeared in television and newspaper ads, as well as on packs of cigarettes and on the manufacturers’ websites., the following is a statement from dr. karen e. knudsen, ceo of the american cancer society (acs) and the american cancer society cancer action network (acs can.), “we are pleased to see this important next step taken to ensure that the tobacco industry carries out the court’s order to issue corrective statements after being found guilty of deceiving the american people more than two decades ago., “big tobacco manufacturers have proven themselves to be bad actors time and time again and the companies show no signs of changing their behavior of their own volition. motivated by profit to addict as many individuals as possible, the tobacco industry’s products contribute to the death of approximately 480,000 americans each year, resulting in up to one-third of all cancer deaths. , “these corrective statements are intended to prevent future harm. the american cancer society is proud to be an intervener in the lawsuit working to put an end to industry deception about the harm of tobacco products., “while the court agreement is an important and long overdue milestone, the work of acs can to pass policies at all levels of government to reduce tobacco use is essential to eliminating the risk of tobacco-driven cancers.”   , ###, about acs the american cancer society is a global grassroots force of 1.5 million volunteers dedicated to saving lives, celebrating lives, and leading the fight for a world without cancer. from breakthrough research to free lodging near treatment, a 24/7/365 live helpline, free rides to treatment, and convening powerful activists to create awareness and impact, the society is the only organization attacking cancer from every angle. for more information go to www.cancer.org., about acs can at 20  the american cancer society cancer action network (acs can) makes cancer a top priority for policymakers at every level of government. acs can empowers volunteers across the country to make their voices heard to influence evidence-based public policy change that saves lives. we believe everyone should have a fair and just opportunity to prevent, find, treat, and survive cancer. since 2001, as the american cancer society’s nonprofit, nonpartisan advocacy affiliate, acs can has successfully advocated for billions of dollars in cancer research funding, expanded access to quality affordable health care, and made workplaces, including restaurants and bars, smoke-free. as we mark our 20th anniversary, we’re more determined than ever to stand together with our volunteers and save more lives from cancer. join the fight by visiting www.fightcancer.org. ,  ,  , news room home, media relations contacts, news releases, our executive leadership, our researchers, social media, news alerts, embargoed password protected site, what causes cancer?, imagine a world free from cancer. help make it a reality., donate, cancer information, answers, and hope. available every minute of every day., © 2017 american cancer society, inc. all rights reserved. the american cancer society is a qualified 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization. cancer.org is provided courtesy of the leo and gloria rosen family.][press releases, 800.227.2345]press releases[washington, d.c. – may 4, 2022 –, about acs, www.cancer.org., about acs can at 20 , , ][latest news, english english español more languages, english, español, more languages, cancer a-z, stay healthy, treatment & support, our research programs, get involved, about us, , , , , , cancer prevention & detection, cancer basics, signs & symptoms of cancer, treatments & side effects, cancer facts & statistics, news and stories, glossary, for health care professionals, breast cancer support, tlc hair loss & mastectomy products, hope lodge® lodging, rides to treatment, online support communities, making strides against breast cancer walks, coaches vs. cancer, relay for life events, college relay for life, donate a car, ways to give, memorial giving, planned giving, leadership giving, contact us, local offices, volunteer, employment, become a supplier, report fraud or abuse, global health, acs can, sign up for email, policies, bookstore, shop, cancer atlas, press room, cancer statistics center, help, site map, privacy, accessibility, terms of use, state fundraising notices, site comments]