[breathing exercises can help ease the coughing that often accompanies copd. learn about techniques like pursed lip breathing with the help of these diagrams., coughing is one of the most disruptive symptoms associated with copd, but it actually serves a useful function. we’ll talk about the pros and cons, as well as causes and treatments., copd is a chronic disease that affects the lungs and makes it difficult to breathe. the condition gets progressively worse over time. but there are several things you can do to ease symptoms and improve your quality of life with copd. learn how., with copd, you can be at risk for serious complications that not only put your health in jeopardy, but also could be fatal. we'll share tips for preventing them., for people with copd, allergies can pose the risk of serious complications. here's a look at basic tips for avoiding worsened respiratory symptoms such as coughing and wheezing., smoking cessation is the only reliable treatment to slow the progression of your copd and help you maintain the lung function you have left., to treat copd, you may need to take a combination of several different medications. triple therapy combines three copd drugs in a single inhaled dose. read on to learn how triple therapy works, who's a good candidate, and how it compares to dual therapy., joining a support group for copd can help you feel less alone. you'll be able to connect with people going through the same things you are. there are support groups that meet in-person, as well as online groups. read on to learn more., tiny particles of pollutants like smoke, radon, and other chemicals can get into your home through open doors and windows as well as your ventilation system. one way to clear the air in your home is by using an air purifier. this stand-alone device sanitizes the air and removes fine particles, like pollutants and allergens., which is better, dual or triple therapy? outside of medication, what else can you do to manage advanced copd? dr. raj dasgupta answers common questions about treating advanced copd to help you better manage your symptoms., reducing stress can help you keep your copd symptoms under control. get a better understanding of the relationship between copd flare-ups and stress., many of depression's symptoms can overlap with those of copd. we'll show you how to recognize the signs and seek treatment., if you’re living with copd, breathing devices like inhalers, nebulizers, and cpap can help you feel better by opening airways, relieving breathlessness, and maintaining or improving lung function. here’s what you need to know about breathing devices for copd., here are some tips for using oxygen therapy, as well as your options. the type of oxygen therapy best fit for you will depend on how much oxygen you need and your typical routine, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) can make it hard to breathe and difficult to get enough oxygen. learn ways you can find relief., our brands][your copd wellness guide, living with copd]moving forward with advanced copd[][health conditions, discover, plan, connect, shop, sex qs, identity, pleasure, birth control, relationships, breathing exercises with copd breathing exercises can help ease the coughing that often accompanies copd. learn about techniques like pursed lip breathing with the help of these diagrams.read more, , copd and cough: how they’re related and what you should know coughing is one of the most disruptive symptoms associated with copd, but it actually serves a useful function. we’ll talk about the pros and cons, as well as causes and treatments.read more, can copd be reversed? learn more about symptoms, activity, and… copd is a chronic disease that affects the lungs and makes it difficult to breathe. the condition gets progressively worse over time. but there are several things you can do to ease symptoms and improve your quality of life with copd. learn how.read more, recognizing serious copd complications with copd, you can be at risk for serious complications that not only put your health in jeopardy, but also could be fatal. we'll share tips for preventing them.read more, seasonal allergies and copd: tips to avoid complications for people with copd, allergies can pose the risk of serious complications. here's a look at basic tips for avoiding worsened respiratory symptoms such as coughing and wheezing.read more, quitting smoking as a copd treatment smoking cessation is the only reliable treatment to slow the progression of your copd and help you maintain the lung function you have left.read more, triple therapy inhaler for copd: what is it? to treat copd, you may need to take a combination of several different medications. triple therapy combines three copd drugs in a single inhaled dose. read on to learn how triple therapy works, who's a good candidate, and how it compares to dual therapy.read more, support groups for severe copd joining a support group for copd can help you feel less alone. you'll be able to connect with people going through the same things you are. there are support groups that meet in-person, as well as online groups. read on to learn more.read more, how an air purifier can give your lungs a break if you have copd tiny particles of pollutants like smoke, radon, and other chemicals can get into your home through open doors and windows as well as your ventilation system. one way to clear the air in your home is by using an air purifier. this stand-alone device sanitizes the air and removes fine particles, like pollutants and allergens.read more, ask the expert: comparing the different therapies for advanced copd which is better, dual or triple therapy? outside of medication, what else can you do to manage advanced copd? dr. raj dasgupta answers common questions about treating advanced copd to help you better manage your symptoms.read more, the link between copd flare-ups and stress management reducing stress can help you keep your copd symptoms under control. get a better understanding of the relationship between copd flare-ups and stress.read more, overcoming depression with copd many of depression's symptoms can overlap with those of copd. we'll show you how to recognize the signs and seek treatment., breathing devices for copd: from inhalers to bipap if you’re living with copd, breathing devices like inhalers, nebulizers, and cpap can help you feel better by opening airways, relieving breathlessness, and maintaining or improving lung function. here’s what you need to know about breathing devices for copd., don’t leave home without it: oxygen therapy 101 here are some tips for using oxygen therapy, as well as your options. the type of oxygen therapy best fit for you will depend on how much oxygen you need and your typical routine, advanced copd care from head to toe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) can make it hard to breathe and difficult to get enough oxygen. learn ways you can find relief., about us, contact us, privacy policy, privacy settings, advertising policy, health topics, medical affairs, content integrity, newsletters, © 2005-2022 healthline media a red ventures company. all rights reserved. our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. healthline media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. see additional information.]