[our hearst studio loves a challenging brief – we see it as an opportunity to come up with innovative and immersive creative solutions that have real business impact for our clients. from our powerful story-telling to our unparalleled knowledge of visual media, we can captivate audiences with your message., leverage the appeal of our empowering stories, and be secure in the knowledge that you're working with world-beating brands at the apex of innovation, integrity and trust., our in-house team is second-to-none: journalists, designers, videographers and art directors, all creating standout content, and delivering engaged audiences for our clients across all channels., be it about which platform, brand, or audience to focus on, data informs all our creative decisions to ensure your content is optimised for success. meanwhile, our trailblazing new metric, engaged view rate (evr) ensures it is measurable., we hold everything we publish to the exact same standard as our editorial journalism, be that an in-depth research piece or fashion tips. we ensure your story captivates audiences., our creativity in print goes beyond just words and pictures. gatefolds, dye cuts and zippable covers are among the many innovative paper technologies with which you can grab consumers' attention., no one can compete with our knowledge of visual media. working with some of best photographers in the industry, we’ll conceive, organise and execute photoshoots that embody your brand., at hearst, we are at the vanguard of a branded video revolution. we plan, direct, shoot and edit visual assets that captivate on any platform, from 10-second snapchat ads to 10-minute short films., facebook canvas. instagram story ads. snapchat takeovers. this is barely a taste of the smorgasbord of social-media products we can build for you. whatever your need, we’ll find your solution., we offer a glittering array of ways to make your product shoppable. think gamified interactive features, swipeable galleries and instagram shopping links, all perfectly optimised for your brand and goals., whether it's by analysing engagement levels on a campaign or using insight polls to find the best audience for a specific topic, we always make smart, strategic, data-led decisions with our branded content., please get in touch using the form below to speak with a member of the hearst solutions team about partnerships., hearst uk is part of the hearst network., get our newsletters in your inbox, sign up, © hearst uk, the national magazine company ltd. registered in england number 112955][breadcrumb, branded content, branded content with purpose, why hearst studio?, how can the hearst studio help you?, let's work together]branded content | hearst[hearst studio, please get in touch using the form below to speak with a member of the hearst solutions team about partnerships.][solutions, branded content, solutions, sectors, brands, the beacon, case studies, about us, media centre, careers, sustainability, contact us, newsletters, hearst uk, hearst usa, hearst china, hearst italy, hearst japan, hearst netherlands, hearst spain, hearst taiwan, terms & conditions, privacy policy, cookies policy, advertiser terms, complaints policy, environmental policy, statement of investment principles, modern slavery statement, reports, annual engagement policy implementation statement, solutions, sectors, brands, the beacon, case studies, about us, media centre, careers, sustainability, contact us, newsletters, subscriptions]