[we're never just a name on the box, we're a true partnership. our licensing services extend from product development to marketing support. we’ve spent more than 100 years building trust in our brands. now let us bring that trust — along with our unparalleled consumer insight — to your products and services., esquire, cosmopolitan, harper’s bazaar… our titles are known and loved by consumers the world over. partner with a hearst brand and benefit from this hard-won trust., all of our world-class brands come with influence, reach and value. join forces with one of them, set your price to match, and watch your average order value and basket size blossom., our editors are some of the most influential tastemakers in the world. their insight can be your insight, as you work together to develop the product your customers can't live without., want design advice from the brand director of red? or colour-palette guidance from the editor-in-chief of elle decoration? get exclusive access to our senior editorial teams to make your product pop., weave our ethos into the fabric of your product or service with a watertight set of guidelines to ensure our partnership is fully aligned, primed and future-proofed to maximise your revenue potential., connection is key. we’ll develop a full style guide to imbue all your marketing collateral with the power of our brand, so consumers instantly see us in your product., editorial pages, online features, subscriber offers, email newsletters... these are just some of the ways we’ll integrate your product into relevant hearst brands to push it to the front of consumers’ minds., please get in touch using the form below to speak with a member of the hearst solutions team about partnerships., hearst uk is part of the hearst network., get our newsletters in your inbox, sign up, © hearst uk, the national magazine company ltd. registered in england number 112955][breadcrumb, licensing, unique licensing opportunities, why hearst licensing?, how can we help you?, let's work together]licensing | hearst[please get in touch using the form below to speak with a member of the hearst solutions team about partnerships.][solutions, licensing, solutions, sectors, brands, the beacon, case studies, about us, media centre, careers, sustainability, contact us, newsletters, hearst uk, hearst usa, hearst china, hearst italy, hearst japan, hearst netherlands, hearst spain, hearst taiwan, terms & conditions, privacy policy, cookies policy, advertiser terms, complaints policy, environmental policy, statement of investment principles, modern slavery statement, reports, annual engagement policy implementation statement, solutions, sectors, brands, the beacon, case studies, about us, media centre, careers, sustainability, contact us, newsletters, subscriptions]