[this is cs50x , harvard university's introduction to the intellectual enterprises of computer science and the art of programming for majors and non-majors alike, with or without prior programming experience. an entry-level course taught by david j. malan, cs50x teaches students how to think algorithmically and solve problems efficiently. topics include abstraction, algorithms, data structures, encapsulation, resource management, security, software engineering, and web development. languages include c, python, sql, and javascript plus css and html. problem sets inspired by real-world domains of biology, cryptography, finance, forensics, and gaming. the on-campus version of cs50x , cs50, is harvard's largest course. , students who earn a satisfactory score on 9 problem sets (i.e., programming assignments) and a final project are eligible for a certificate. this is a self-paced course–you may take cs50x on your own schedule.][professional and lifelong learning, in-person, blended, and online courses, cs50: introduction to computer science, associated schools, harvard school of engineering and applied sciences, what you'll learn, course description, instructors, you may also like, cs50's introduction to game development, cs50 for lawyers, cs50's introduction to artificial intelligence with python, get updates on new courses.]cs50: introduction to computer science | harvard university[][art & design, business, computer science, data science, education & teaching, health & medicine, humanities, mathematics, programming, science, social sciences, english, english, computer science, data structures, algorithms, programming, sql, python, web development, css, html, javascript, harvard school of engineering and applied sciences, a broad and robust understanding of computer science and programming, how to think algorithmically and solve programming problems efficiently, concepts like abstraction, algorithms, data structures, encapsulation, resource management, security, software engineering, and web development, familiarity in a number of languages, including c, php, and javascript plus sql, css, and html, how to engage with a vibrant community of like-minded learners from all levels of experience, how to develop and present a final programming project to your peers, david j. malan gordon mckay professor of the practice of computer science, harvard john a. paulson school of engineering and applied sciences, doug lloyd senior preceptor in computer science, harvard university, brian yu senior preceptor in computer science, harvard university, programming online cs50's introduction to game development learn about the development of 2d and 3d interactive games in this hands-on course, as you explore the design of games such as... free* 12 weeks long available now, computer science online cs50 for lawyers this course is a variant of harvard university's introduction to computer science, cs50, designed especially for lawyers (and law... free* 10 weeks long available now, computer science online cs50's introduction to artificial intelligence with python learn to use machine learning in python in this introductory course on artificial intelligence. free* 7 weeks long available now, accessibility, privacy policy, terms of use, eea privacy disclosures, twitter, facebook, linked in]