[, save shows to listen to later, subscribe to your favourites and get fresh recommendations every day., sign in or register, escape the noise of daily life, the pm admits it was a tough night for the tories as they lost hundreds of seats., gary lineker, alan shearer and micah richards debate major footballing event top 10s., lucy worsley investigates the crimes of victorian women from a contemporary perspective., do you remember the doctor? ten-part drama starring charlie craggs, with jodie whittaker., surprisingly simple ways to boost your health and wellbeing - in one easy step., the most streamed eurovision songs, scott mills' pocket guides, and much more., are the latest ad-hyped products and trends really 'the best thing since sliced bread'?, castaway guests share the soundtrack of their lives., jonny dymond tells the extraordinary and revealing story of vladimir putin's life., this is hayley williams’ emo 101 with incredible emo music and a heap of nostalgia!, ex-boxing world champ tony bellew talks to different people about what makes them angry., two women who know what's what and who's who in the world of radio., beenie man, 1xtra celebrates king of the dancehall - beenie man., collaborations, charli's got an hour of her favourite musical collaborations!, heating up with the hot indie tunes, summer's fast approaching and we've got a playlist of indie royalty to take you there!, noughts + crosses, sublime songs from series 2 of noughts + crosses, dreamy tunes soundtrack the story of star-crossed lovers in the bbc one drama., the one with trevor nelson, romesh is joined by colleague trevor nelson as he finds his feet on bbc sounds., dive into a playlist beneath the waves, splash out with an underwater playlist featuring music from ecco the dolphin and more., arooj aftab selects beautiful music for concentration, the brooklyn-based vocalist curates ambient, electronic, classical, ethio-jazz and more., the sleeping forecast, need a good sleep? we have the perfect soundtrack, a calming listen combining bbc introducing tracks and radio 4's shipping forecast, vacay night out!, big narstie & bdl hitsquad member dj bluesy take you on a tropical vacay night out!, a warm hug of calming classical music to get you through your day, no matter how tough your day might be, give yourself a dose of classical goodness, koffee, koffee introduces her favourite tracks from nigeria’s santi, koffee puts us onto the music of santi, and how his artistry has inspired her., series 2, vol. 6: a sonic journey into cillian’s music collection, two hours of incredible music from pixies, sun ra, massive attack and more!, think yourself stronger, how to increase your strength - without moving a muscle., balancing work and play, stuart sandeman shows how to find a better work-life balance, over feel-good, chill tunes., get motivated with music to lift your mood, emeli sandé explores music to motivate and help you get things done., self-esteem: prioritising pleasure, "everything got better, i'm a better friend...", 23. ellie goulding: reaching the soul, joe wicks asks singer ellie goulding what makes her mentally and physically strong., lola young chill mix, lola young selects planet earth's most soothing musical vibes.][accessibility links, bbc sounds homepage - music. radio. podcasts, your world of sounds, listen live, unmissable sounds, music mixes, self-care sounds, categories, explore the bbc]bbc sounds - music. radio. podcasts[][skip to content, accessibility help, home, news, sport, weather, iplayer, sounds, bitesize, cbeebies, cbbc, food, home, news, sport, reel, worklife, travel, future, culture, tv, weather, sounds, home, news, sport, weather, iplayer, sounds, bitesize, cbeebies, cbbc, food, home, news, sport, reel, worklife, travel, future, culture, tv, weather, sounds, home, music, podcasts, my sounds,  , live radio 1 scott mills, live radio 1 dance radio 1 dance, live radio 1 relax radio 1's chill mix, live radio 1xtra remi burgz, live radio 2 steve wright in the afternoon, live radio 3 afternoon concert, live radio 4 drama, live radio 4 extra vanity fair by william makepeace thackeray, live radio 5 live nihal arthanayake, live radio 5 sports extra coming up on 5 sports extra, live radio 6 music craig charles, live asian network asian network certified, live world service newshour, live radio scotland the afternoon show, live radio nan gàidheal caithream ciùil, live radio ulster hugo duncan, live radio foyle the mark patterson show, live radio wales behnaz akhgar, live radio cymru ifan evans, live radio cymru 2 ifan evans, live cbeebies radio andy and the band,  , newscast the pm admits it was a tough night for the tories as they lost hundreds of seats., match of the day: top 10 gary lineker, alan shearer and micah richards debate major footballing event top 10s., lady killers with lucy worsley lucy worsley investigates the crimes of victorian women from a contemporary perspective., doctor who: redacted do you remember the doctor? ten-part drama starring charlie craggs, with jodie whittaker., just one thing - with michael mosley surprisingly simple ways to boost your health and wellbeing - in one easy step., celebrating eurovision the most streamed eurovision songs, scott mills' pocket guides, and much more., sliced bread are the latest ad-hyped products and trends really 'the best thing since sliced bread'?, desert island discs castaway guests share the soundtrack of their lives., putin jonny dymond tells the extraordinary and revealing story of vladimir putin's life., everything is emo this is hayley williams’ emo 101 with incredible emo music and a heap of nostalgia!, tony bellew is angry ex-boxing world champ tony bellew talks to different people about what makes them angry., fortunately... with fi and jane two women who know what's what and who's who in the world of radio., 1xtra salutes... beenie man 1xtra celebrates king of the dancehall - beenie man. 60 mins more episodes, 60 mins, charli xcx’s ultimate playlist collaborations charli's got an hour of her favourite musical collaborations! 60 mins more episodes, 60 mins, 6 music's indie forever heating up with the hot indie tunes summer's fast approaching and we've got a playlist of indie royalty to take you there! 60 mins more episodes, 60 mins, tv soundtracks noughts + crosses sublime songs from series 2 of noughts + crosses dreamy tunes soundtrack the story of star-crossed lovers in the bbc one drama. 60 mins more episodes, 60 mins, romesh ranganathan: for the love of hip hop the one with trevor nelson romesh is joined by colleague trevor nelson as he finds his feet on bbc sounds. 86 mins more episodes, 86 mins, gameplay with baby queen dive into a playlist beneath the waves splash out with an underwater playlist featuring music from ecco the dolphin and more. 60 mins more episodes, 60 mins, ambient focus arooj aftab selects beautiful music for concentration the brooklyn-based vocalist curates ambient, electronic, classical, ethio-jazz and more. 120 mins more episodes, 120 mins, mindful mix the sleeping forecast need a good sleep? we have the perfect soundtrack a calming listen combining bbc introducing tracks and radio 4's shipping forecast 62 mins more episodes, 62 mins, big narstie's narstie night out vacay night out! big narstie & bdl hitsquad member dj bluesy take you on a tropical vacay night out! 60 mins more episodes, 60 mins, mindful mix a warm hug of calming classical music to get you through your day no matter how tough your day might be, give yourself a dose of classical goodness 93 mins more episodes, 93 mins, 1xtra's influence with... koffee koffee introduces her favourite tracks from nigeria’s santi koffee puts us onto the music of santi, and how his artistry has inspired her. 60 mins more episodes, 60 mins, cillian murphy's limited edition series 2 vol. 6: a sonic journey into cillian’s music collection two hours of incredible music from pixies, sun ra, massive attack and more! 120 mins more episodes, 120 mins, just one thing - with michael mosley think yourself stronger how to increase your strength - without moving a muscle. 14 mins more episodes, 14 mins, radio 1's decompression session balancing work and play stuart sandeman shows how to find a better work-life balance, over feel-good, chill tunes. 60 mins more episodes, 60 mins, composed with emeli sandé get motivated with music to lift your mood emeli sandé explores music to motivate and help you get things done. 60 mins more episodes, 60 mins, dr rangan chatterjee: out of hours self-esteem: prioritising pleasure "everything got better, i'm a better friend..." 30 mins more episodes, 30 mins, the joe wicks podcast 23. ellie goulding: reaching the soul joe wicks asks singer ellie goulding what makes her mentally and physically strong. 39 mins more episodes, 39 mins, radio 1's chill mix lola young chill mix lola young selects planet earth's most soothing musical vibes. 30 mins more episodes, 30 mins, comedy, drama, documentaries, sport, science & technology, true crime, podcasts, pop & chart, dance & electronica, rock & indie, hip hop, rnb & dancehall, classical, cymraeg, gaeilge, gàidhlig, bbc sounds help, contacts, privacy and information, help with signing in, newsletter, home, news, sport, weather, iplayer, sounds, bitesize, cbeebies, cbbc, food, home, news, sport, reel, worklife, travel, future, culture, tv, weather, sounds, terms of use, about the bbc, privacy policy, cookies, accessibility help, parental guidance, contact the bbc, get personalised newsletters, advertise with us, adchoices / do not sell my info]