[looking for more information about ccpa and the privacy center? our frequently asked questions aim to answer your questions., the california consumer privacy act (ccpa) is a california law, effective jan. 1, 2020, that sets rules for handling the personal information of california residents. if you are a california resident, these rules include your right to view what information we collect about you, to tell us not to sell information that is linked to you, and to request deletion of that information., the law is new and applies only to california residents.  accordingly, at this time only california residents may exercise these new rights., we’ve made it as easy as possible, keeping in mind that we need to verify it’s really you before providing or deleting your information. just navigate to the “your privacy rights” page and select from the options within “your rights & choices”. you may be asked for your name, email and region of residence., generally, no.  if we determine your requests are excessive or unwarranted, we may request a reasonable fee in order to process them., yes. this is the warnermedia privacy center and applies to all warnermedia brands and affiliates. if you are a resident of the european union, please visit our gdpr site. for other countries, consult the global privacy policy for choices available in your region., we collect data when you use our products and services, such as by browsing our websites, downloading our mobile apps, or playing our games. for example, we may have information that you’ve given us, like your email address. we may also collect information about your actions and transactions, which help form preference categories (such as “horror genre fan”) that we use to send you tailored offers and promotions. sometimes we supplement this information with information from third parties., under the california consumer privacy act, the definition of “sale” is very broad. it includes the transfer or sharing of personal information with a third party for any value, even if the information is not sold for monetary value. we do not sell personal information for monetary value, but we do sometimes transfer it to third parties as part of a mutually beneficial business relationship., it is important to note that sharing personal information with service providers who provide goods and services or perform other business functions on our behalf is not a “sale.” for purposes of this privacy center, a “service provider” is not a “third party.” it is also not a “sale” if a consumer directs us to share personal information with a third party or otherwise intentionally interacts with a third party via one of our websites, apps, or games., we’ll ask you to complete a third-party id verification process after submitting a request. we will be notified by the third-party service whether they have been able to verify your identity. we do this to help make sure we do not provide a consumer’s personal information to the wrong person or delete the wrong consumer’s information. this allows us to confidently and securely manage your data requests.  we’ll let you know any information we receive from the third-party id verification process, and we will use it only for purposes of fulfilling your request., if you have issues or complaints, you can call us at 1-833-wm-prvcy., the california law gives you the right to see a copy of personal information that we have collected about you in the last 12 months prior to your request. we’ll search our systems and if we find personal information associated with you, we’ll send you a report., we will attempt to process access requests within 45 days, and may take an additional 45-day extension if needed, in which case we will notify you. if you are not a california resident, we cannot process your request., we collect data when you use our products and services, such as by browsing our websites, downloading our mobile apps, or playing our games. for example, we may have information that you’ve given us, like your email address. we may also collect information about your actions and transactions, which help form preference categories (such as “horror genre fan”) that we use to send you tailored offers and promotions. sometimes we supplement this information with information from third parties., your information helps us create better, more personalized products and services. for example, we use your information to optimize your gaming experience. it also helps us customize offers tailored to your interests, such as information about an upcoming movie that you may love. sometimes we work with third parties to provide these offerings., if, based on the information you provide with your access request, we can identify personal information associated with you in our systems that has been collected within the last 12 months prior to your request, we will generally provide you with a copy. in some cases, for your security or privacy, we may tell you we have a piece of information rather than returning it. for instance, if we have a password for one of your accounts or information you can already access directly through one of your accounts, we won’t include it in an access report. we’ll just tell you that we have it.  in other instances, we may not return certain information because it might reveal trade secrets., for access or delete requests, you can submit a request on behalf of someone else through the privacy center by choosing the appropriate option indicating your relationship before submitting your request. if you are a parent or guardian, you may choose option for making a request on behalf of a child and provide information on your child. if you are submitting a request on behalf of someone else who is not your child, you may do so with a power of attorney or with written permission by providing information about that person when you submit your request. if you are acting with a power of attorney, choose “power of attorney.” if you can obtain written permission, choose “written permission.”, if you want to erase personal information we have collected from you, you can submit a delete request. the california law makes some important exceptions to deletion requests. these include data needed for basic business functions, security and fraud protection, and compliance with legal obligations. this data would not be deleted., the california law makes some important exceptions to deletion requests. these include data needed for basic business functions, security and fraud protection, and compliance with legal obligations. this data would not be deleted., we will attempt to process access requests within 45 days, and may take an additional 45-day extension if needed, in which case we will notify you. if you are not a california resident, we cannot process your request., for access or delete requests, you can submit a request on behalf of someone else through the privacy center by choosing the appropriate option indicating your relationship before submitting your request. if you are a parent or guardian, you may choose option for making a request on behalf of a child and provide information on your child. if you are submitting a request on behalf of someone else who is not your child, you may do so with a power of attorney or with written permission by providing information about that person when you submit your request. if you are acting with a power of attorney, choose “power of attorney.” if you can obtain written permission, choose “written permission.”, under the california consumer privacy act, the definition of “sale” is very broad. it includes the transfer or sharing of personal information with a third party for any value, even if the information is not sold for monetary value. we do not sell personal information for monetary value, but we do sometimes transfer it to third parties as part of a mutually beneficial business relationship., it is important to note that sharing personal information with service providers who provide goods and services or perform other business functions on our behalf is not a “sale.” for purposes of this privacy center, a “service provider” is not a “third party.” it is also not a “sale” if a consumer directs us to share personal information with a third party or otherwise intentionally interacts with a third party via one of our websites, apps, or games., we appreciate your business no matter what choice you make. we use your data in ways we think are helpful beyond your basic service. for instance, we can customize your experience, make program recommendations just for you, and send special offers for things you care about rather than things you don’t., we recommend that you select the marketing emails within your inbox that you wish to no longer receive and use the unsubscribe functionality within the email itself. this is the fastest way to unsubscribe from marketing emails. and knowing how to do this allows you to take control of the marketing emails you are receiving whether they are from us or not., no. this form allows you to select from our top marketing email distribution lists. it’s a quick way to remove yourself from many of our marketing email lists, however it is not exhaustive of all of our lists. the best way to unsubscribe from marketing emails is to open the marketing emails in your inbox and use the unsubscribe link found within those emails., email unsubscribe requests will be processed in 10 days., tm & © 2022 all rights reserved., ][frequently asked questions, general, what is the california consumer privacy act?, can anyone exercise these new rights?, how can i make a request?, is there a fee associated with making a request?, are there different privacy sites for warnermedia companies?, what information do you have about me?, do you sell my personal information?, how will you verify my identity?, how do i lodge a complaint with you about how you are executing your ccpa procedures?, access requests, what is an access request?, how long does it take to process an access request?, what kind of information do you have about me?, why do you have all this data?, did you really return all my data?, how do i submit a request on behalf of someone else?, delete requests, what is a delete request?, if i ask you to delete my information, are you deleting everything?, how long does it take to process a delete request?, how do i submit a request on behalf of someone else?, do not sell my personal information, do you sell my personal information?, why shouldn’t i request that you delete everything and not sell anything?, email unsubscribe requests, what is the recommended way to unsubscribe from emails?, will you unsubscribe me from all emails if i fill out the email unsubscribe form?, how long does it take to process requests?]frequently asked questions | warnermedia privacy center[][your privacy rights, frequently asked questions, privacy policy, terms of use, english español, español, general, access, delete, do not sell, email unsubscribe, our privacy approach, privacy policy, terms of use, cookie settings]