[skip to content, guidance for developers building accessible websites based on bbc gel, the bbc global experience language (gel) technical guides are a series of framework-agnostic, code-centric recommendations and examples for building gel design patterns in websites. they illustrate how to create websites that comply with all bbc guidelines and industry best practice, giving special emphasis to the bbc accessibility guidelines for websites., our guides are for bbc developers following the bbc gel design patterns, including all bbc employees, contractors and suppliers. however they are publicly available for anyone who may be interested in how the bbc recommends building websites., you can use these guides under an open government licence for public sector information. details can be found on the national archives website., the examples in each guide are for reference only and are not intended to be used as a library., our guides make recommendations about the markup (html), layout (css), and behaviour (js) of your gel implementations. it is otherwise technology agnostic., however, the reference implementations inside our guides adhere to certain principles and conventions. if you are intending to contribute working code to this project, please be mindful of these., all reference implementations are written in es5. the intention is for the code to be as widely understood, and as easily adopted for creating test cases as possible. in a few cases, small polyfills are included. these are added to the implementation's demo page inside the init function., our guides eschew larger polyfills and compatibility libraries, opting to use feature detection. in javascript this might mean wrapping functionality in an if block., in css, a basic layout is put in place then enhanced with modern layout modules like css grid inside @supports blocks:, components are identified in their markup using classes and the gel-component structure. for example, the site menu pattern uses class="gel-sitemenu" on the parent element, and gel-sitemenu-more to identify each (hidden by default) submenu., component scripts are attached to the gel namespace, like gel.componentname., each reference implementation that depends on javascript uses a basic constructor pattern to instantiate the working component. for example, the simple toggle switch constructor looks like this:, note that the toggle function is exposed as a public method, in case the switch needs to be toggled programmatically., initialization inside the component's demo page looks like this:, did you know we created a related project for testers? we have translated most of our technical documentation in act-formatted test scripts., this project is currently being overseen by the bbc accessibility team. if you have access to our corporate slack channel pop in and say hi. we welcome questions and suggestions posted to this project's github issue tracker., copyright © 2021 bbc. this content is published under the open government licence, unless otherwise noted.][gel technical documentation, foundations, components, about this site, coding conventions, es5, progressive enhancement, namespacing, constructor pattern, related, questions?]gel | gel technical documentation[site menu][foundations, components, about this site, coding conventions, related, questions?]