[won't affect credit. takes just 90 seconds, won't affect credit. takes just 90 seconds, when you order your $1 credit report and fico® score 8, you will begin your 7-day trial membership※ in experian® creditworks℠ plus. if you don't cancel your membership within the 7-day trial period※, you will be billed $21.95 plus applicable sales tax for each month that you continue your membership. you may easily cancel your trial membership online anytime within the trial period without charge., *credit score is calculated based on fico® score 8 model, unless otherwise noted. in addition to the fico® score 8, we may offer and provide other base or industry-specific fico® scores (such as fico® auto scores and fico® bankcard scores). your lender or insurer may use a different fico® score than fico® score 8 or such other base or industry-specific fico® score (if available), or another type of credit score altogether. learn more, (press to open modal), compare across all 3-bureau credit reports with views into your personal information, see what factors are impacting each., learn the details about the items that appear in your experian credit report, this offer is only available to u.s. residents., © 2022 all rights reserved. importantscore.com. this site is subject to our importantscore.com policies. by voluntarily providing us with information on this site, you consent to our use of that information in accordance with our privacy policy., experian and the experian marks used herein are trademarks or registered trademarks of experian information solutions, inc. other product and company names mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners., ※monitoring with experian begins within 48 hours of enrollment in your trial. monitoring with equifax® and transunion® takes approximately 4 days to begin, though in some cases cannot be initiated during your trial period. you may cancel your trial membership in experian creditworks℠ any time within 7 days of enrollment without charge., the site is not directed to individuals under the age of eighteen (18), and we request that such individuals not provide personal information through the site. if you are under 18 years of age, you may browse our site; however, you may not provide personal information to us such as name, address, or email address, and you may not register for, enroll in, and/or make product purchases.][it's never been easier tocheck your fico® score* with $1 credit report†, †important information, featured on:, 3-bureau credit report, 3-bureau fico® scores, live customer support]free credit score and triple credit scores | important score[][about us, faq, member login, contact us, unsubscribe, gobankingrates, what is a good credit score?, how to increase credit score?, what is the highest credit score?, privacy policy & terms of use, advertiser disclosure, security, do not sell my personal information]