[sarmady creates unique content in news, entertainment, sports, automotive, city guide and directory which we avail to users to enjoy via web, mobile-internet, mobile apps, social media, sms and voice., page & screen views, unique users, social media fans, social media reach, copyright © 2001-2020 all rights reserved][first digital destination, our products, digital marketing, our latest interactives, our clients]sarmady - a vodafone company[][home, about, portfolio, brands, clients, advertise, careers, contact us, first digital destination sarmady creates unique content in news, entertainment, sports, automotive, city guide and directory which we avail to users to enjoy via web, mobile-internet, mobile apps, social media, sms and voice. read more, , , , , , , , founded in 2001, filgoal.com has been always in the heart of egyptian sports news, and is now the leading sports news website in the country. read more, filfan.com is the first and leading arabic-language specialized entertainment news website in egypt. we ensure that our users will always stay up to date with every single story. read more, contactcars.com is the first and leading specialized platform for auto enthusiasts who are interested in anything related to automotive, especially in purchasing and selling new/used cars. read more, reyada.com is the first and leading sports news aggregator in mena. never miss a sports story, either globally or in the gcc region. reyada.com has got you always covered. read more, akhbarak.net is the biggest content aggregator in mena, bringing you stories from over 300 publishers in all aspects of politics, sports, health, women and lifestyle, economy. read more, egypt's most comprehensive cinema and film listing service has gone mobile with cinemaguide app. our app covers all cinemas in egypt, so you can make lists of your favorite cinemas. read more, daralakhbar.com mobile application provides the biggest diverse news experience where you have one destination to follow the recent and important news from all local and international. read more, , , , ]