[want to join lottometrix? then, this lottometrix review hopes to shed some light on how it works and see if it’s for you. jerry jay lendlsmith leads the whole team, and they offer a lotto strategy that is based on number-patterns., perhaps, you are unsure if their strategy will work for you., i know., but i know something sure about you. you want to win the lottery. and you want that happen as soon as possible., and why not?, winning the lottery is life-changing., with money, you can buy your dream house. travel anywhere you want. buy the best looking car. eat the food you like. buy anything you fancy. and most of all, never worry about money ever again., sound’s great, doesn’t it?, but winning the lottery isn’t easy., you’ve slaved over your lottery spreadsheet. you’ve tracked the most frequently appearing numbers in the last 500 draws. you’ve tried everything from birthdates to quick pick, to lucky numbers recommended by your favorite fortune teller., and after more than a decade of playing, you still haven’t found a perfect strategy that will beat the odds., should you give up your dream?, what if you knew which numbers are more likely to occur in the lottery?, what if picking those numbers would help you increase your chances of winning the lottery in no time?, fortunately for you, you can use math to get the best shot possible., but does a mathematical strategy really exist?, it does., this article how to win the lottery (and win sooner according to math) explains how a mathematical strategy works., but math requires some work.  the vast majority of lotto players would need something that they can simply pick and play., fortunately, some websites exist to make it simpler for you., one of them is lottometrix and this article is a review of what they offer., here are the 7 things you should know about lottometrix:, , many serious players track lottery results believing that it will help them compose a better number combination.  sadly, all they are doing is tallying the frequency of each number and come up with a hot list., mathematically, hot numbers or even cold numbers, don’t work at all.  because if they do, then the lottery would have lots of winners every draw.  the lottery doesn’t work that way., lottometrix takes it up a notch using a scientific approach., they use the method proposed by renato gianella in his study called the geometry of chance.  in gianella’s theory, two major mathematical formulas are being used.  first, the binomial coefficients invented by an italian polymath gerolamo cardano in the 15th century. the second one is the probability formula.  the combined power of two mathematical tools produced a list of number patterns with different probability group., see related article: the lottery and the winning formula according to math, lottometrix divided the patterns into three major groups namely: the best, the fair, and the worst., using the above approach, lottometrix doesn’t need to gather the past winning numbers to determine the trending pattern.  story short, they only need two variables to start with., x and y, for example, with the u.s. powerball 5/69 game, the required variables are:, x = 5, y = 69, those two variables are all they need to compute what works in the lottery., math is so powerful that from these two variables alone, they can determine the best number-patterns in the lottery., in short, statistics is not required., nonetheless, though not required in the calculation process, statistics is necessary to prove the calculation.  what is the point of calculating when you have no way to know if it’s right or wrong?  otherwise, everything that lottometrix calculates will just reduce to mere “assumption.”, thus, lottometrix tracks the past lottery results to prove that everything matches with their theoretical calculations., , lottometrix only supports 7 lotteries., so, if you play the lotto 649 game, then, it’s not available in their system., fortunately, another website has taken the extra mile to analyze every lottery systems in the world.  of course, this page is all about lottometrix so a review of another lottery math website is available in a separate article., so despite lottometrix’s limited coverage, there’s another website you can turn to for help.  you’re still lucky guys!, , yes, it’s free., and maybe it’s free just for now. we don’t know., perhaps, another reason, why you should join while it’s free., however, i have to clarify though. inside the member’s area, you will find links going to external services., that’s because, without sponsors, lottometrix will not survive., the website’s biggest sponsor is overseas subscribers agent or osa.  so don’t be surprised if you see some links going to osa website.  they also promote osa via email newsletter as well., lottometrix keeps its business through sponsorship., so, if you see links that offer to play the lottery online, it is offered by a third-party service and not by lottometrix., for example, you will see inside lottometrix a link offering to join “the billionaire series” by osa.  if you want to join, you will be asked to complete your contact details.  your entry to the billionaire series is managed by osa not by lottometrix., another thing, since lottometrix doesn’t sell lotto tickets, it is your responsibility to buy a ticket from wherever you like either online or through your nearest lotto outlet.  if you don’t purchase a ticket, don’t claim a prize if one of your numbers made a match.  especially, don’t claim it from lottometrix because lottometrix is not a lottery entry service business., now, worried about your information being shared? i guess it’s also important to touch that matter in this lottometrix review., and according to their privacy policy page, they don’t share your information with outside parties.  in other words, you only share your personally identifiable information when you opted to play lotto from one of the third parties advertised in the member’s area., , find it hard to pick numbers to play?, don’t worry. lottometrix has got you covered.  they have a number generator., the number generator is free, but you have to play lotto online from one of their sponsors to have access to it., , hacking the lottery involves too many factors., it’s too hard and complex for the layman and time-consuming for those gifted with mathematical ability., fortunately, automation comes in handy., thanks to the internet. lottometrix uses its workforce to provide the needed data analysis to know when it is the right time to play the lottery., this analysis frees everyone to focus on playing., update: as of 2018, this feature is not available anymore., , now, forget about your lottery spreadsheet., you don’t need them., tracking whether your numbers have matches in the lottery is done automatically for you., if you remember, in item #4, i mentioned about the numbers generated for you by lottometrix.  the benefit doesn’t stop there.  lottometrix continues to track those numbers and notifies if you get a perfect match., needless to say though. if you do get perfect matches, that doesn’t mean you are entitled to a prize.  if you don’t purchase a ticket, then you don’t win., , if you are interested in joining, go ahead.  sign up here., because if you find that it’s not something for you according to your own lottometrix review, you can unsubscribe anytime., click on one of the unsubscribe link at the bottom of one of their email newsletters, and you are removing yourself from the list., it also removes you from the membership.  and also, you will no longer be able to log in as well., , i believe, this group is awesome. i like to stress that in this lottometrix review., jerry jay lendlsmith answers email personally. you can ask any question should you need any assistance regarding the use of their strategy., and if you agree and you want to join, here’s the link to the registration page., you don’t pay to get access to their mathematical research., but they get paid through sponsorships., it’s similar to how tv and radio networks make money and how they bring information to the masses at no cost at all., i think that is a win-win relationship., keep in mind that the website is sponsored by overseas subscribers agent or osa.  so, it’s natural that you see osa links within the lottometrix member’s area., buying lotto tickets online through osa is all up to you.  purchasing is not a mandatory thing., whether you purchase through osa or opt to play at your nearest lotto outlet, you are free to access lottometrix at all times., and when you join, and you find that it’s not at all useful to you, then you can go away anytime. so nothing to lose., after all, it’s a free service.][lifetickler, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, #1. lottometrix doesn’t use statistics to calculate the probability, #2. lottometrix doesn’t support all lotteries, #3. lottometrix is a free service but it doesn’t sell lotto tickets, #4. it generates numbers for you, #5. lottometrix do offer “play” and “don’t play” signal, #6. lottometrix reviews number matches while you sleep, #7. you can unsubscribe anytime, lottometrix review: my verdict, about the author, related posts]lottometrix review - 7 things you should know before you join[update: as of 2018, this feature is not available anymore.][home, health, money, parenting, relationship, society, technology, let’s connect contact us our rss feeds privacy policy terms of use acknowledgment about us, contact us, our rss feeds, privacy policy, terms of use, acknowledgment, about us, lotterycodex review: a mathematical strategy through the eyes of a clueless lotto gamer, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, digital parenting and monitoring solution for working moms, a lifelong thing, cakes are our forever favorites, the stock market is for you, 10 of the most unique homes on airbnb, perfect gifts for boyfriend’s parents for the first meeting, 12 remodelling tips that will transform your house into your dream home, how to draw like a pro (even if you are not an artist), 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, you’re a league of legends gamer now… here’s how you reach level 30 fast!, 10 tips relationship experts want to teach you about love, what everybody ought to know about showering with cold water, african women need healthy and nurtured pregnancy, do women need more sleep than men?, how to increase website conversion using color psychology, 7 mobile phone awesomeness you probably do not know, 7 signs that will hint at your steady relationship, how to make life easier for your elderly relatives, how to sleep better and faster, 5 tips to become a professional photographer, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 5 tips to help you hire your dream wedding band, tips and reasons to hire a professional chauffeur service, prepaid funeral services: protecting your loved ones from money worries, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, only a true insomniac would understand the beauty of sleeplessness, should the league of legends bring back the dominion map?, how to get the best bridesmaid gowns on your big day?, remember these tricks if you’re in an accident, dog debate: purebred vs. mutt, wine glass etching – a diy guide to ideas and patterns, are home security systems worth the money?, 7 ways to be romantic without being pretty cheesy or corny, how to save big on college textbooks, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, improve your finances in 2017, how to impress every professor, how reaching rock bottom helped me take control, pure grace part ii: the radical messages of grace, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, lottery prediction according to math – how to pick numbers to win, the anatomy of the supermom (and a little mother’s day history), amethyst engagement ring – a proposal of purple, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, parenthood: a list of sure but unusual signs that you are ready, good vibes: the what, when, where, and how of humanity’s favorite mantra, natural light photography: illuminating the beauty of the basics, cause of early hearing loss linked to a genetic mutation of an inhibitor, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part ii, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part i, a guide to buying a second hand car, you are a money-making machine: manifest & invest, are you pro or against a long distance relationship?, understanding car insurance, you should not take vitamin supplements, online banking + smartphone = a very cool life, guide on how and where to buy the best wheelchair, bulk of your money should be in the stock market – not in the bank, how i turn my mobile phone camera into a 24/7 money making machine, how forex works and why you should start trading now, why lottery should be taken more positively, surviving pre eclampsia and living to tell the tale (twice), having a great date even on a tight budget, fun and bizarre ways of making money on fiverr, women’s pregnancy fears: reasons why some women don’t want pregnancy, the ways of the words: what happened to grammar and spelling over the years?, dear mr. abercrombie & fitch, the world is round and beautiful – i hope you get the gist]