[water makes a charming feature in almost any garden. but a fine setting will bring even greater beauty. if a well-planted bog comes up to the pond edge and reflects on the surface, that scene is perfected. wetland plants have particular beauty. visit beth chatto's gorgeous water­ ­garden in essex, or the drifts of asiatic primulas at rhs garden harlow carr in north yorkshire, and you'll see what i mean., british gardening expert nigel colborn shared advice for sprucing up your garden lawn or growing a new one.this includes choosing the right grass seed for you and preparing the soil., welsh composer ivor novello was spot on with his song we'll gather ­lilacs. they're surely the most romantic of spring flowers and, for that reason alone, they belong in everyone's garden., this year's winter was abnormally dry in many regions. and now, just when growth should run at top speed, it's drier still. we're heading for a drought. for gardeners, that's a disappointment., this is a good time to refresh compost if you grow camellias or azaleas in containers. ericaceous compost loses acidity - especially when hard water is used., chelsea flower show is next week. tickets are almost sold out, but you can enjoy the show in comfort at home. you might even see more on television than when buffeted by the crowds. chelsea is by far the world's most famous flower show. but other events over the coming months have qualities that the great london show lacks. the setting for chelsea is superb, but some alternative venues are even prettier., camellias are giving a wonderful show this year, but it will soon be over. after flowering has finished, give each shrub a vigorous shake to dislodge any dead blooms., now is the time to deal with winter jasmine. though spectacularly beautiful with cheerful yellow flowers from november to march, this shrub is ferociously invasive., among frost-tender crops, the tomato is king. fancy alternatives such as melons or aubergines can be tricky, but tomatoes are a favourite because they're dependable., published by associated newspapers ltd, part of the daily mail, the mail on sunday & metro media group][gardening, wetland plants have a natural beauty and will attract wildlife: far from bog-standard! , it's grass roots time! give your lawn a makeover and prepare for the rewards in spring, spring's romantic lead: lovely lilac has a soft, scented touch and is at its best now , it's too dry and your garden is suffering, but don't panic... how to beat the drought , action plan: nigel colborn's essential jobs for your garden this week, nigel colborn, monty don, quentin letts, putting on a show: roll up! there's a top floral event waiting for you on your doorstep, action plan: nigel colborn's essential jobs for your garden this week , action plan: nigel colborn's essential jobs for your garden this week, true taste of summer: tomato plants are on sale now, but hurry for the finest of flavours]gardening - latest news, tips and ideas | daily mail online[monday, may 9th 2022, 29°c, 23°c][home, news, u.s., sport, tv&showbiz, australia, femail, health, science, money, video, travel, best buys, discounts argos ao.com river island groupon debenhams wayfair very ebay boohoo nike currys virgin media asos tui my profile logout login, argos, ao.com, river island, groupon, debenhams, wayfair, very, ebay, boohoo, nike, currys, virgin media, asos, tui, my profile, logout, login, latest, russia-ukraine war, world news, you mag, books, promos, rewards, mail shop, motoring, property, columnists, puzzles, my profile, logout, login, plants 'talk' to each other, frankenflies that can protect crops, ecofarm that uses your pet's waste, comments, 20 shares far from bog-standard! , 1 comment, 2 shares it's grass roots time! give your lawn a makeover and prepare fo spring, comments, 54 shares spring's romantic lead: lovely lilac, comments, 33 shares how to beat the drought , comments, 10 shares nigel colborn's essential jobs for your garden this week, buy patterned pot, buy distressed decor, buy royal plot, buy herbivore, buy oil jar, buy pretty pot, buy patterned pot, buy distressed decor, buy royal plot, buy herbivore, buy oil jar, buy pretty pot, buy patterned pot, buy light the way, buy beautiful bunting, buy keeping toasty, buy table topper, buy lazy lounger, buy non-flying carpet, buy cosy canopy, buy champ lamp, buy chin chin, buy hottest tub, buy ace of plates, buy coffee table, buy cool cutlery, buy light up, buy light the way, buy beautiful bunting, buy keeping toasty, buy table topper, buy lazy lounger, buy non-flying carpet, buy cosy canopy, buy champ lamp, comments, 41 shares there’s a top floral event waiting for you on your doorstep, comments, 19 shares action plan: nigel colborn's essential jobs for your garden this week , comments, 14 shares action plan: nigel colborn's essential jobs for your garden this week, comments, 15 shares true taste of summer: tomato plants, house of fraser, habitat, habitat, john lewis, garden trading co, debenhams, house of fraser, habitat, habitat, john lewis, garden trading co, debenhams, house of fraser, back to top, home, news, u.s., sport, tv&showbiz, australia, femail, health, science, money, video, travel, best buys, discounts]