[as your bundle of joy grows, so does the number of changes to your body. one of the most common (and dreaded) changes is the appearance of stretch marks., many different thoughts about stretch marks and treatment options exist, but how can moms-to-be separate fact from fiction?, we took a closer look at what causes stretch marks and how to treat them to help you find some peace-of-mind., stretch marks are visible, depressed marks on the skin. they can be dark red, purple, or brown in color. eventually, most stretch marks fade and give off a silvery-white sheen., stretch marks generally appear wherever fat is stored in the body, including the thighs, hips, stomach, breasts, and buttocks., your skin is supported by a number of structural proteins, including elastin and collagen. these proteins ensure your skin stays soft, supple, and stretchy., during pregnancy, your skin experiences rapid changes. the proteins supporting your skin break down as your skin stretches and shrinks. as with any other break, your body needs to heal itself., a stretch mark is a scar that forms in this process. you may be at greater risk for developing stretch marks if you have:, contrary to what many skin care companies claim, stretch marks are permanent., do not despair! while you cannot completely get rid of stretch marks once you have them, there are many effective treatments to help minimize the appearance and restore the skin’s strength., follow these ten tips to both prevent stretch marks and minimize the appearance of existing stretch marks:, for most women, stretch marks are simply a cosmetic problem. however, if your stretch marks become red, raised, and itchy, you may have a skin rash known as pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy., this rash is fairly common and should not pose any serious harm to you or your baby, other than being painful. contact your doctor for a soothing medication and stay away from tight clothes that could aggravate the rash., stretch marks do not have to make you feel miserable. they are a sign of the wonderous thing your body has done in carrying a baby. with a little bit of know-how, you can decrease your risk of stretch marks and treat them quickly if they appear., photo by ignacio campo][lifetickler, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, what are stretch marks?, what causes stretch marks?, do stretch marks go away?, how to minimize stretch marks, raised, red stretch marks, stretch marks during pregnancy, about the author, related posts]everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy[use a moisturizing cream, maintain a healthy pregnancy weight, stay hydrated, get your vitamins, ask for a retinoid prescription, cover your belly in sunlight, use self-tanner., try laser therapy, start treatment soon, stop stressing!][home, health, money, parenting, relationship, society, technology, let’s connect contact us our rss feeds privacy policy terms of use acknowledgment about us, contact us, our rss feeds, privacy policy, terms of use, acknowledgment, about us, pale skin, a family history of stretch marks, experienced rapid weight loss or gain, use a moisturizing cream. look for products specifically formulated for pregnant bellies and recommend by other moms. you will especially want to find a cream with hyaluronic acid. it has been proven in scientific studies to reduce stretch marks., maintain a healthy pregnancy weight. this will be different for everyone. however, stretch marks can be exasperated by excessive weight gain or loss., stay hydrated. drinking water is not only good for you and your baby, but it also contributes to healthy, hydrated skin., get your vitamins. alongside your prenatal vitamins, make sure to eat a diet high in vitamin a. vitamin a is rich in antioxidants that benefit the skin. you can get vitamin a in leafy greens, sweet potatoes, and carrots., ask for a retinoid prescription. retinoids are a topical form of vitamin a. prescription strength creams can boost collagen production., cover your belly in sunlight. exposure to the sun increases your risk of stretch marks. keep your belly covered up if you go outside. always use a sunscreen of 75 spf or higher. if your belly has to be exposed, apply sunscreen regularly., use self-tanner. a self-tanning cream is a good cosmetic fix for stretch marks if you have fair skin., try laser therapy. if your stretch marks are severe or causing significant stress on your self-esteem, consider laser therapy. it is the only treatment recommended by the american society for dermatologic study to cause a significant reduction in the appearance of stretch marks., start treatment soon. it is best to treat stretch marks before or as soon as they appear. if you are worried about stretch marks, follow these tips as soon as you confirm your pregnancy., stop stressing! nearly 90% of women get stretch marks during pregnancy. be proud of your body and what it has accomplished., lotterycodex review: a mathematical strategy through the eyes of a clueless lotto gamer, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, digital parenting and monitoring solution for working moms, a lifelong thing, cakes are our forever favorites, the stock market is for you, 10 of the most unique homes on airbnb, perfect gifts for boyfriend’s parents for the first meeting, 12 remodelling tips that will transform your house into your dream home, how to draw like a pro (even if you are not an artist), 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, you’re a league of legends gamer now… here’s how you reach level 30 fast!, 10 tips relationship experts want to teach you about love, what everybody ought to know about showering with cold water, african women need healthy and nurtured pregnancy, do women need more sleep than men?, how to increase website conversion using color psychology, 7 mobile phone awesomeness you probably do not know, 7 signs that will hint at your steady relationship, how to make life easier for your elderly relatives, how to sleep better and faster, 5 tips to become a professional photographer, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 5 tips to help you hire your dream wedding band, tips and reasons to hire a professional chauffeur service, prepaid funeral services: protecting your loved ones from money worries, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, only a true insomniac would understand the beauty of sleeplessness, should the league of legends bring back the dominion map?, how to get the best bridesmaid gowns on your big day?, remember these tricks if you’re in an accident, dog debate: purebred vs. mutt, wine glass etching – a diy guide to ideas and patterns, are home security systems worth the money?, 7 ways to be romantic without being pretty cheesy or corny, how to save big on college textbooks, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, improve your finances in 2017, how to impress every professor, how reaching rock bottom helped me take control, pure grace part ii: the radical messages of grace, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, lottery prediction according to math – how to pick numbers to win, the anatomy of the supermom (and a little mother’s day history), amethyst engagement ring – a proposal of purple, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, parenthood: a list of sure but unusual signs that you are ready, good vibes: the what, when, where, and how of humanity’s favorite mantra, natural light photography: illuminating the beauty of the basics, cause of early hearing loss linked to a genetic mutation of an inhibitor, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part ii, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part i, a guide to buying a second hand car, you are a money-making machine: manifest & invest, are you pro or against a long distance relationship?, understanding car insurance, you should not take vitamin supplements, online banking + smartphone = a very cool life, guide on how and where to buy the best wheelchair, bulk of your money should be in the stock market – not in the bank, how i turn my mobile phone camera into a 24/7 money making machine, how forex works and why you should start trading now, why lottery should be taken more positively, surviving pre eclampsia and living to tell the tale (twice), having a great date even on a tight budget, fun and bizarre ways of making money on fiverr, women’s pregnancy fears: reasons why some women don’t want pregnancy, the ways of the words: what happened to grammar and spelling over the years?, dear mr. abercrombie & fitch, the world is round and beautiful – i hope you get the gist]