[when it comes to home security, every homeowner wants what’s best for their precious houses. besides, those are big investments and at the same time, we all want our families to be safe and secure. most homeowners opt for buying security systems and install those themselves. this is a huge mistake, especially since we are not experts on the subject., i myself regret buying and installing my own cctv system. i have always been the type to worry about me and my family’s safety but at the same time, i love being able to save up by doing these things myself. however, doing this has made me anxious and worried about not being able to do it right. so a few months back, i ended up calling a home security company that specializes in installing quality security systems and asked them to install their products in my own house. from then on, i’ve been worry-free since i know that professionals installed my security alarm system and that they have definitely done it right., aside from this, i am going to discuss why i regret buying and installing my own monitored alarms., home alarm systems are difficult and very complex to install. it definitely contains more than one step, and you would have to spend hours just reading and understanding the manual. if you still cannot get a grasp of the instructions, then you would have to call customer service and talk to them for hours. talking to someone on the phone while installing a camera system is actually more difficult and can get frustrating and confusing., diy security systems often lack a lot of the most important security features. you will most likely get the most basic alarm system, which is a big no-no since we are talking about your home security here. most professional security companies offer packages that include backup batteries, motion detectors, fire alarms, panic buttons, redundant alerts, wireless security, and more., since you will be installing your own alarm system, chances are the company that you bought the system from won’t replace or repair your equipment since you installed them yourself. it would not be covered by the company’s warranty if you install it incorrectly, and they would just say that it is your own fault because you installed it wrong., we think that if we buy our own security system and install them ourselves, we would be spending less. this is actually not the case, as we would possibly have to buy more add-ons, making us spend more than what we have actually bargained for. you might have realized that you bought a plain and basic security system, and now you have to buy the add-ons just to be safe. if you have a lot of windows, then you must consider getting multiple sensors. buying each component separately will definitely cost you a lot more in the long run., i’ve noticed that my alarm system is a bit off, which is why i got professionals to install a new one. the reason behind this is that do-it-yourself alarm systems are often mass-produced, which is why they often have poor quality., hackers are always upping their game every single day and most of them are targeting diy home security systems. thieves can easily deactivate cheap alarm systems, and the way that they manipulate these things is actually pretty scary. diy security alarms use the most basic hardware and software, which is the reason why hackers can easily trace the pin numbers that you put in on the system., when you install a diy security system, you would have to monitor the cctv and the cameras manually. this means you would have to install apps and check on it on your smartphone, tablets, and desktops 24/7, which can be a hassle especially if you are always away from your home. at the same time, this will automatically slow your internet connection down and will affect your bandwidth (which by the way can cost you more)., wireless home security systems that are handled by professionals can be monitored by the police and the authorities. this means that even while you and your family are gone for a vacation, the authorities can still keep an eye on your home. with diy security systems though, all it does is send you notifications and that is it. it is not possible to connect it to the authorities, which is a big bummer., i guess what i am trying to say here is that getting a diy alarm system is just not worth it. you would have to think about a lot of things, plus the stress and anxiety that it can cause can be debilitating. get a professional to install a home security alarm in your home today and trust me, you will never regret it., photo by alex knight][lifetickler, 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, i have had a difficult time installing it, cheap and do-it-yourself monitored alarms do not have enough features, no guarantees or warranties, you would possibly be spending more, quality is not that good, diy security systems can easily be hacked, it’s too much of a hassle, the authorities would not be able to watch your home, about the author, related posts]8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system[][home, health, money, parenting, relationship, society, technology, let’s connect contact us our rss feeds privacy policy terms of use acknowledgment about us, contact us, our rss feeds, privacy policy, terms of use, acknowledgment, about us, lotterycodex review: a mathematical strategy through the eyes of a clueless lotto gamer, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, digital parenting and monitoring solution for working moms, a lifelong thing, cakes are our forever favorites, the stock market is for you, 10 of the most unique homes on airbnb, perfect gifts for boyfriend’s parents for the first meeting, 12 remodelling tips that will transform your house into your dream home, how to draw like a pro (even if you are not an artist), 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, you’re a league of legends gamer now… here’s how you reach level 30 fast!, 10 tips relationship experts want to teach you about love, what everybody ought to know about showering with cold water, african women need healthy and nurtured pregnancy, do women need more sleep than men?, how to increase website conversion using color psychology, 7 mobile phone awesomeness you probably do not know, 7 signs that will hint at your steady relationship, how to make life easier for your elderly relatives, how to sleep better and faster, 5 tips to become a professional photographer, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 5 tips to help you hire your dream wedding band, tips and reasons to hire a professional chauffeur service, prepaid funeral services: protecting your loved ones from money worries, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, only a true insomniac would understand the beauty of sleeplessness, should the league of legends bring back the dominion map?, how to get the best bridesmaid gowns on your big day?, remember these tricks if you’re in an accident, dog debate: purebred vs. mutt, wine glass etching – a diy guide to ideas and patterns, are home security systems worth the money?, 7 ways to be romantic without being pretty cheesy or corny, how to save big on college textbooks, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, improve your finances in 2017, how to impress every professor, how reaching rock bottom helped me take control, pure grace part ii: the radical messages of grace, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, lottery prediction according to math – how to pick numbers to win, the anatomy of the supermom (and a little mother’s day history), amethyst engagement ring – a proposal of purple, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, parenthood: a list of sure but unusual signs that you are ready, good vibes: the what, when, where, and how of humanity’s favorite mantra, natural light photography: illuminating the beauty of the basics, cause of early hearing loss linked to a genetic mutation of an inhibitor, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part ii, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part i, a guide to buying a second hand car, you are a money-making machine: manifest & invest, are you pro or against a long distance relationship?, understanding car insurance, you should not take vitamin supplements, online banking + smartphone = a very cool life, guide on how and where to buy the best wheelchair, bulk of your money should be in the stock market – not in the bank, how i turn my mobile phone camera into a 24/7 money making machine, how forex works and why you should start trading now, why lottery should be taken more positively, surviving pre eclampsia and living to tell the tale (twice), having a great date even on a tight budget, fun and bizarre ways of making money on fiverr, women’s pregnancy fears: reasons why some women don’t want pregnancy, the ways of the words: what happened to grammar and spelling over the years?, dear mr. abercrombie & fitch, the world is round and beautiful – i hope you get the gist]