[by steve rosenberg russia editor, moscow, this video can not be played, ahead of victory day, moscow was full of rumour and speculation., was vladimir putin preparing a major announcement on russia's offensive in ukraine? would he declare some kind of victory? or signal an escalation?, in the end, he did neither., in his red square address to russian troops - and the russian nation - the kremlin leader repeated his frequently voiced justification for attacking ukraine: an argument that appears to blame everyone but russia for what's happening., he criticised (as usual) america, nato and the government in kyiv, claiming that their actions had put the security of russia itself in danger. he made references (as usual) to "neo-nazis" in ukraine. we hear that a lot from russian officials, who regularly voice the baseless claim that ukraine has been overrun by fascists, ultra-nationalists and nazi sympathisers., president putin admitted that russia had suffered military losses, but he gave no details. the last official figures released by russia's defence ministry were 1,351 russian soldiers killed. but that was six weeks ago. there has been no update since., curiously, mr putin didn't employ his familiar phrase - "special military operation" - to describe russia's offensive. neither did he call it a war. but he tried to draw parallels between current hostilities and world war two. an attempt, perhaps, to mobilise patriotic sentiment over hitler's defeat to boost support amongst the russian public for the invasion of ukraine., following the speech, thousands of russian soldiers marched across red square, although there were fewer troops here than in last year's victory day parade. military hardware was put on show, too. but a planned military fly-over was cancelled, officially due to poor weather., the kremlin had been expecting a swift victory in ukraine, possibly within days of sending in its troops. it didn't happen., many here believe president putin's plan b was to secure a victory by 9 may. that hasn't happened, either., where does president putin go from here? there were few clues in today's speech. but there was no signalling of an end to hostilities. for now, they will continue., russia fighting for motherland in ukraine - putin, putin defends ukraine war but no hint of next steps, putin gives few clues in victory day speech, 'when the shelling stops, the traitors will be punished', why 9 may victory day is so important for russia, 'when the shelling stops, the traitors will be punished', how dangerous is the situation in north korea?, is nato's nordic expansion a threat or boost to europe?, coal shortage sparks india's power woes, the controversial candidates for philippines president, the artist sketching conflict in ukraine. videothe artist sketching conflict in ukraine, the tiny creatures you didn't know are living on your face, the family who lost nine children to the floods, 'is it about changing who we are?', ellie simmonds investigates a controversial new drug, preparation, pain and patience, the ‘enemy of the state’ who won historic olympic gold, 'to say that i was shocked is to say nothing', one of very few russian sportspeople to speak out against the war, © 2022 bbc. the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites. read about our approach to external linking.][ukraine war: putin gives few clues in victory day speech, to play this video you need to enable javascript in your browser., war in ukraine: more coverage, more on this story, related topics, top stories, features, elsewhere on the bbc, most read, bbc news services]ukraine war: putin gives few clues in victory day speech - bbc news[by steve rosenberg][skip to content, accessibility help, your account, home, news, sport, reel, worklife, travel, future, culture, menumore, home, news, sport, reel, worklife, travel, future, culture, music, tv, weather, sounds, home, war in ukraine, coronavirus, climate, video, world, uk, business, tech, science, stories, entertainment & arts, health, world news tv, in pictures, reality check, newsbeat, long reads, world, africa, asia, australia, europe, latin america, middle east, us & canada, russia-ukraine war, sanctions: what sanctions are being imposed on russia?, maps: tracking the russian invasion, watch: volunteer pilots resupply ukrainian hospitals, read more: full coverage of the crisis, russia fighting for motherland in ukraine - putin 2 hours ago, russia-ukraine war, russia, vladimir putin, ukraine, live.  putin defends ukraine war but no hint of next steps, putin gives few clues in victory day speech published 2 hours ago, 'when the shelling stops, the traitors will be punished' published 1 hour ago, why 9 may victory day is so important for russia, 'when the shelling stops, the traitors will be punished', how dangerous is the situation in north korea?, is nato's nordic expansion a threat or boost to europe?, coal shortage sparks india's power woes, the controversial candidates for philippines president, the artist sketching conflict in ukraine. videothe artist sketching conflict in ukraine, the tiny creatures you didn't know are living on your face, the family who lost nine children to the floods, 'is it about changing who we are?' ellie simmonds investigates a controversial new drug, preparation, pain and patience the ‘enemy of the state’ who won historic olympic gold, 'to say that i was shocked is to say nothing' one of very few russian sportspeople to speak out against the war, 1'when the shelling stops, the traitors will be punished', 2tv presenter walks out of sport awards over sexism, 3putin gives few clues in victory day speech, 4egypt teens arrested for harassing female tourists, 5in pictures: russia's victory day parade, 6sri lankan pm resigns amid economic crisis, 7bitcoin value drops by 50% since november peak, 8anger after india airline removes disabled teenager, 9how dangerous is the situation in north korea?, 10dup blocks new ni government in brexit protest, on your mobile, on smart speakers, get news alerts, contact bbc news, home, news, sport, reel, worklife, travel, future, culture, music, tv, weather, sounds, terms of use, about the bbc, privacy policy, cookies, accessibility help, parental guidance, contact the bbc, get personalised newsletters, why you can trust the bbc, advertise with us, adchoices / do not sell my info]