[syria’s history is rich and its capital, damascus, is one of the oldest cities in the world. the flags of syria also tell an interesting story., let’s take a brief look at those flags and see if it can give us more insight on syria., until the end of world war i, syria was a part of the ottoman empire and used their symbols. after liberating the country in 1918, the hashemite dynasty adopted the arab revolt flag., , the flag was designed by a british diplomat who wanted to fuel the revolt. the symbol features a black-green-white tricolor with a red triangle that represents the royal family., it was the official flag of the kingdom of syria until 1920 when the french occupied the country. it’s interesting to note that this flag is today the official flag of jordan., french got the mandate of syria from the allied supreme council in 1920. general henry gouraud occupied damascus and dethroned the king. various sources claim that a sky-blue flag with a french tricolore and a white crescent was used after the fall of king faysal., gouraud established a federation of syria in 1922, which used a horizontal green-white-green flag with the french tricolore in canton. the state of syria formed in 1924 by the merging of aleppo and damascus used the same flag., nationalists were getting stronger in the twenties and the french were pressurized into allowing the formation of the syrian republic in 1930. according to the constitution of the newly-formed republic, its flag was divided into three equal and parallel green, white and black sections, with the three stars representing the districts in the middle. history books claim that the flag was first flown in aleppo in january 1932., although they signed the independence treaty in 1936, the french remained in syria until the world war ii finished. in 1946, the syrian republic got full independence and confirmed the green-white-black tricolor as an official symbol., , syria formed the united arab republic with egypt in 1958. this short-lived union lasted for three years and was broken up after an uprising by the syrian army. the united arab republic used a horizontal tricolor with red, white and black colors. the two green stars in the center represented syria and egypt., the ba’athist regime tried to make a new union with egypt and iraq in 1963. although the process failed, syria adopted a flag that should have symbolized the union. it was a small adjustment compared to the united arab republic’s pennant as there were three starts in the center (syria, egypt, and iraq)., syria continued the tendency to form unions in the seventies. the president hafez al-assad signed a treaty to constitute the federation of arab republics with libya and egypt in 1972. the official flag replaced the stars in the middle with the hawk of quraish. the hawk, which is a symbol of the prophet muhammad’s tribe, held the ribbon with the name of the federation. syria’s flag was a bit different as it did not include the name of the country below the scroll., the federation lasted until 1977, but syria used the flag for three more years., the last change of the official flag in syria occurred in 1980. the horizontal red-white-black tricolor with two green stars was readopted as a symbol of syria’s dedication to the arab unity., historians offer several alternatives for what the colors on the flag mean:, the official flag is associated with the parties loyal to the current government. it motivated the syrian opposition to readopt the independence flag from 1932. you can see their flag in parts of the country under their control., below is the flag used by the national coalition for syrian revolutionary and opposition forces. known as “the symbol of syria’s uprising,” this flag is based on the independence flag from 1932., , dr. sheldon cooper from the tv show “big bang theory” is a famous flag lover. he could make several episodes of his fun with flags show by using syria’s symbols., the country’s rich history enabled it to be rich in flags, too. thank you to the flag makers for info on the flags of syria., photo credit:][lifetickler, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, the kingdom of syria, the french occupation, the syrian republic, the united arab republic, the federation of arab republics, syrian flag today – a country of two flags, final words, about the author, related posts]a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags[red, white, black, green, stars][home, health, money, parenting, relationship, society, technology, let’s connect contact us our rss feeds privacy policy terms of use acknowledgment about us, contact us, our rss feeds, privacy policy, terms of use, acknowledgment, about us, red – the blood spilled for freedom, white – the umayyad caliphate (or a peaceful future), black – the abbasids caliphate (or oppression), green – the fatimid caliphate (or the rashidun), stars – the former union between syria and egypt., first flag: creative commons image source, second flag: creative commons image source, third flag: creative commons image source, lotterycodex review: a mathematical strategy through the eyes of a clueless lotto gamer, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, digital parenting and monitoring solution for working moms, a lifelong thing, cakes are our forever favorites, the stock market is for you, 10 of the most unique homes on airbnb, perfect gifts for boyfriend’s parents for the first meeting, 12 remodelling tips that will transform your house into your dream home, how to draw like a pro (even if you are not an artist), 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, you’re a league of legends gamer now… here’s how you reach level 30 fast!, 10 tips relationship experts want to teach you about love, what everybody ought to know about showering with cold water, african women need healthy and nurtured pregnancy, do women need more sleep than men?, how to increase website conversion using color psychology, 7 mobile phone awesomeness you probably do not know, 7 signs that will hint at your steady relationship, how to make life easier for your elderly relatives, how to sleep better and faster, 5 tips to become a professional photographer, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 5 tips to help you hire your dream wedding band, tips and reasons to hire a professional chauffeur service, prepaid funeral services: protecting your loved ones from money worries, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, only a true insomniac would understand the beauty of sleeplessness, should the league of legends bring back the dominion map?, how to get the best bridesmaid gowns on your big day?, remember these tricks if you’re in an accident, dog debate: purebred vs. mutt, wine glass etching – a diy guide to ideas and patterns, are home security systems worth the money?, 7 ways to be romantic without being pretty cheesy or corny, how to save big on college textbooks, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, improve your finances in 2017, how to impress every professor, how reaching rock bottom helped me take control, pure grace part ii: the radical messages of grace, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, lottery prediction according to math – how to pick numbers to win, the anatomy of the supermom (and a little mother’s day history), amethyst engagement ring – a proposal of purple, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, parenthood: a list of sure but unusual signs that you are ready, good vibes: the what, when, where, and how of humanity’s favorite mantra, natural light photography: illuminating the beauty of the basics, cause of early hearing loss linked to a genetic mutation of an inhibitor, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part ii, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part i, a guide to buying a second hand car, you are a money-making machine: manifest & invest, are you pro or against a long distance relationship?, understanding car insurance, you should not take vitamin supplements, online banking + smartphone = a very cool life, guide on how and where to buy the best wheelchair, bulk of your money should be in the stock market – not in the bank, how i turn my mobile phone camera into a 24/7 money making machine, how forex works and why you should start trading now, why lottery should be taken more positively, surviving pre eclampsia and living to tell the tale (twice), having a great date even on a tight budget, fun and bizarre ways of making money on fiverr, women’s pregnancy fears: reasons why some women don’t want pregnancy, the ways of the words: what happened to grammar and spelling over the years?, dear mr. abercrombie & fitch, the world is round and beautiful – i hope you get the gist]