[good health is a vital part of a person’s life. supposing that you do not get enough sleep, your mental and physical health will be greatly disturbed. you consume enough energy in one day that sleeping becomes essential to gain further strength for the upcoming day., the cycle goes on and on. this is never ending. there might be days when you would feel you are not sleeping much; you will feel the change in yourself. a natural reaction would be that a person becomes cranky. they do not feel like talking to anyone. they might skip their work as well. their routine could get so disturbed that they can agree to commit anything, just to sleep. conclusively, sleep is a fundamental element in one’s life regardless of the gender., women’s brains are designed for multitasking. they can spend time at work, cook food, look out for family, do household chores, all in one day., i highly doubt that any man could ever do all these tasks (or more) for a duration of one day. men who are reading this can take it as a challenge as well. for once, try to be the woman of the house instead of the man of the house. you will have to accept it; we women do a lot more than you do in one day., let us give credit to our brains which are made to do various duties in a short span of time. because of these responsibilities, women feel completely drained by the end of the day. you may argue that men spend their entire day at the office to work and all the credit here is going to women. well, to be very honest, we deserve it., when we all sleep, our brains are allowed to repair themselves and relax. every part of the brain goes to recovery. the rule here is, the more you use your brain, the more you need sleep. since women tend to multitask, the usage of the brain is relatively greater. because of this, they also need more sleep., a man who has a job of critical thinking might also need more of sleep, but then again, not more than women. we win here again! according to some calculations, women need 20 minutes of more sleep., scientists have proven by their study results that women who fail to get sufficient sleep suffer from more health issues than men. women who are having poor sleep schedules experience high levels of depression, anger, and feelings of hostility. these feelings were not found in men after taking the test., the health problems may rise a lot. according to the study carried out, 33% of women with poor sleep had c-reactive protein levels contributing to a risk of heart disease., the study contained 210 middle-aged men and women for a test. professor horne states that women’s brains are “wired differently from men’s and are more complex, so their sleep need will be slightly greater.” apart from this, there are more tests carried out in previous times too (you can look up through the internet). all investigation have proved that women do have the right to sleep a bit longer than men., after having this argument scientifically proven, i would suggest men to never wake up their sisters, mothers, daughters or wives whenever they are fast asleep. the crankiness might increase about the time before they went to sleep., you might want to save yourself to face their wrath. i am saying this on a personal experience because no woman likes to be interrupted when their brains are recovering from such a tiring day., i am sure you would need the same lady to work for the coming day without being grouchy and irritable. women need their time to recover and rise to a better day and work without any annoyance or discomfort., photo credit: by naty sweet from rio de janeiro, brazil (hangover 2 uploaded by snowmanradio) [cc by 2.0 (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0)], via wikimedia common, you must be logged in to post a comment.][lifetickler, do women need more sleep than men?, about the author, related posts, leave a reply cancel reply]do women need more sleep than men?[][home, health, money, parenting, relationship, society, technology, let’s connect contact us our rss feeds privacy policy terms of use acknowledgment about us, contact us, our rss feeds, privacy policy, terms of use, acknowledgment, about us, lotterycodex review: a mathematical strategy through the eyes of a clueless lotto gamer, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, digital parenting and monitoring solution for working moms, a lifelong thing, cakes are our forever favorites, the stock market is for you, 10 of the most unique homes on airbnb, perfect gifts for boyfriend’s parents for the first meeting, 12 remodelling tips that will transform your house into your dream home, how to draw like a pro (even if you are not an artist), 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, you’re a league of legends gamer now… here’s how you reach level 30 fast!, 10 tips relationship experts want to teach you about love, what everybody ought to know about showering with cold water, african women need healthy and nurtured pregnancy, do women need more sleep than men?, how to increase website conversion using color psychology, 7 mobile phone awesomeness you probably do not know, 7 signs that will hint at your steady relationship, how to make life easier for your elderly relatives, how to sleep better and faster, 5 tips to become a professional photographer, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 5 tips to help you hire your dream wedding band, tips and reasons to hire a professional chauffeur service, prepaid funeral services: protecting your loved ones from money worries, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, only a true insomniac would understand the beauty of sleeplessness, should the league of legends bring back the dominion map?, how to get the best bridesmaid gowns on your big day?, remember these tricks if you’re in an accident, dog debate: purebred vs. mutt, wine glass etching – a diy guide to ideas and patterns, are home security systems worth the money?, 7 ways to be romantic without being pretty cheesy or corny, how to save big on college textbooks, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, improve your finances in 2017, how to impress every professor, how reaching rock bottom helped me take control, pure grace part ii: the radical messages of grace, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, lottery prediction according to math – how to pick numbers to win, the anatomy of the supermom (and a little mother’s day history), amethyst engagement ring – a proposal of purple, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, parenthood: a list of sure but unusual signs that you are ready, good vibes: the what, when, where, and how of humanity’s favorite mantra, natural light photography: illuminating the beauty of the basics, cause of early hearing loss linked to a genetic mutation of an inhibitor, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part ii, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part i, a guide to buying a second hand car, you are a money-making machine: manifest & invest, are you pro or against a long distance relationship?, understanding car insurance, you should not take vitamin supplements, online banking + smartphone = a very cool life, guide on how and where to buy the best wheelchair, bulk of your money should be in the stock market – not in the bank, how i turn my mobile phone camera into a 24/7 money making machine, how forex works and why you should start trading now, why lottery should be taken more positively, surviving pre eclampsia and living to tell the tale (twice), having a great date even on a tight budget, fun and bizarre ways of making money on fiverr, women’s pregnancy fears: reasons why some women don’t want pregnancy, the ways of the words: what happened to grammar and spelling over the years?, dear mr. abercrombie & fitch, the world is round and beautiful – i hope you get the gist]