[unless you control your spending, making more money won’t help. you’ll just end up with bigger payments., earning money is not the end, spending it wisely and with care is where lies the managing tricks. expense tracking is the tool which lets one get a clear picture of their spending behavior. by properly categorizing inwards and outwards of money, listing them separately in different categories. making categories like routine, miscellaneous, irregular gives a general idea of how much money was spent where and which expenses can be curbed., as an entrepreneur knowing where the money was spent is of immense importance. failing to keep a proper track of where the money is spent can lead to long-term failures and losses. having a detailed and organized data of inflows and outflows of money can help in the long run. another reason for entrepreneurs is where they can get proper idea about how much money can be used for further investment purposes., expense tracking can be a very arduous and tricky task to manage. no wonder managing finances and keeping a record of the same is the most relented of tasks. technology cleverly manages many of these issues. with the advent of technology, such tenacious tasks are put at bay. there are a plethora of apps available which manages all work with efficiency. just a click and most of your expense tracking problems are managed with ease., some of the expense tracking apps that every entrepreneur needs to know are listed below, mint is an expense tracking app, which integrates your bank account and credit card data with itself, keeping a track on your expenses and payments, further notifying whenever a payment is to be made. it also aids to categorize the expenses based separating them in different categories, giving a proper idea of how much amount is spent in which category., this is all encompassing app, also giving suggestions on how to manage expenses and letting you know whenever the credit card limits are overused., similar to mint, expensify also helps in tracking expenses by integrating itself with your bank account. it further provides the feature for categorizing the money into already listed categories. access to create different categories is also provided. if the user anytime feels his expenses are exceeding the limits or are faced by some uncalled for expense, they can also be easily listed under the miscellaneous or irregular category., just like the amount of money are put into envelopes based on the expenses, mvelopes also helps in keeping track of expenditure by enveloping them into different categories. unlike other expense tracking app, here the details have to be entered manually., other than the apps listed above, there are other useful apps like pocket guard, good budget apps, etc. which helps entrepreneurs and business manage their finances efficiently and keep a track on their expenses., published with permission from aishwarya raghunath, a geek and passionate writer. she is a regular contributor to desi hisab-the daily expense manager app. you can download this expense manager app from the google play store., photo by rawpixel][lifetickler, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 1. mint, 2. expensify, 3. mvelopes, about the author, related posts]what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?[1. mint, 2. expensify, 3. mvelopes][home, health, money, parenting, relationship, society, technology, let’s connect contact us our rss feeds privacy policy terms of use acknowledgment about us, contact us, our rss feeds, privacy policy, terms of use, acknowledgment, about us, lotterycodex review: a mathematical strategy through the eyes of a clueless lotto gamer, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, digital parenting and monitoring solution for working moms, a lifelong thing, cakes are our forever favorites, the stock market is for you, 10 of the most unique homes on airbnb, perfect gifts for boyfriend’s parents for the first meeting, 12 remodelling tips that will transform your house into your dream home, how to draw like a pro (even if you are not an artist), 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, you’re a league of legends gamer now… here’s how you reach level 30 fast!, 10 tips relationship experts want to teach you about love, what everybody ought to know about showering with cold water, african women need healthy and nurtured pregnancy, do women need more sleep than men?, how to increase website conversion using color psychology, 7 mobile phone awesomeness you probably do not know, 7 signs that will hint at your steady relationship, how to make life easier for your elderly relatives, how to sleep better and faster, 5 tips to become a professional photographer, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 5 tips to help you hire your dream wedding band, tips and reasons to hire a professional chauffeur service, prepaid funeral services: protecting your loved ones from money worries, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, only a true insomniac would understand the beauty of sleeplessness, should the league of legends bring back the dominion map?, how to get the best bridesmaid gowns on your big day?, remember these tricks if you’re in an accident, dog debate: purebred vs. mutt, wine glass etching – a diy guide to ideas and patterns, are home security systems worth the money?, 7 ways to be romantic without being pretty cheesy or corny, how to save big on college textbooks, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, improve your finances in 2017, how to impress every professor, how reaching rock bottom helped me take control, pure grace part ii: the radical messages of grace, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, lottery prediction according to math – how to pick numbers to win, the anatomy of the supermom (and a little mother’s day history), amethyst engagement ring – a proposal of purple, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, parenthood: a list of sure but unusual signs that you are ready, good vibes: the what, when, where, and how of humanity’s favorite mantra, natural light photography: illuminating the beauty of the basics, cause of early hearing loss linked to a genetic mutation of an inhibitor, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part ii, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part i, a guide to buying a second hand car, you are a money-making machine: manifest & invest, are you pro or against a long distance relationship?, understanding car insurance, you should not take vitamin supplements, online banking + smartphone = a very cool life, guide on how and where to buy the best wheelchair, bulk of your money should be in the stock market – not in the bank, how i turn my mobile phone camera into a 24/7 money making machine, how forex works and why you should start trading now, why lottery should be taken more positively, surviving pre eclampsia and living to tell the tale (twice), having a great date even on a tight budget, fun and bizarre ways of making money on fiverr, women’s pregnancy fears: reasons why some women don’t want pregnancy, the ways of the words: what happened to grammar and spelling over the years?, dear mr. abercrombie & fitch, the world is round and beautiful – i hope you get the gist]