[this article will teach you how to eat tasty food for cheap—just by using your microwave and oven. therefore, there’s no slaving over a hot stove., my methods are ideal for single people and people with small families. but, i believe that anyone can get something from this article. let’s get started., eggs are cheap and a good protein source. they are known for being easy to prepare as well. with my microwave technique, eggs can be made even easier! simply crack two eggs into a microwave safe bowl. add seasonings such as dried parsley, paprika and garlic salt. stir the egg mixture. microwave it for 30 seconds. stir the eggs again. then, microwave it again for 30 seconds. stir the mixture one last time and microwave it for 30 seconds to finish the dish. these scrambled eggs can be eaten as is or you can make an egg sandwich. just add a slice of cheese and you can have a cheaper and healthier version of a fast food breakfast sandwich. it is fast and no grease or oil is required.,  , if you prefer boiled eggs, then they can be made in the oven. there’s no wrapping eggs in aluminum foil or waiting for water to boil with my method. just get a muffin tin and place one whole egg in each muffin slot. put the tin in the oven and bake for 30 minutes at 325 degrees. just soak the eggs in cold water for a few minutes before you attempt to peel them. the eggs can keep for days in the fridge and can be eaten as is or put into chef salads. you can also make a breakfast burrito out of the eggs. just get a pack of tortillas from a local discount store. fill the tortillas with chopped eggs, salsa and any leftover meat and cheese you have on hand., rice is another staple in frugal households. of course, dry rice purchased in bulk is the cheapest. however, it can be more time consuming to prepare than “boil-in-bag” rice and instant rice. but, i found a method of preparing bulk rice in the microwave that works well for me. for white rice, simply mix 1/2 cup of dry rice with 1 cup of water and stir. microwave it on high for 8 minutes. then, let it sit for 5 minutes. during this 5 minute “resting time”, the rice will absorb the excess water. you can then top the rice with butter, gravy or anything you desire. i will sometimes mix a little milk and sugar with white rice for an easy to digest breakfast. some people prefer brown rice. i like brown rice for lunch and dinner mixed with butter and salt. simply mix 1 cup of brown rice with 3 cups of water and microwave this for 10 minutes on high. stir the mixture, then microwave it for 20 minutes at 50 percent power. brown rice can be a fiber-rich side dish to almost anything., french fries are a staple in the american diet. a far healthier (and cheaper) version can be made at home. whole potatoes are always available for a low price at any grocery store. start by washing your potatoes. i leave the skin on for more fiber, but you can peel your potatoes if you wish. cut the potatoes into sticks. make sure that they are all about the same size so that they will cook evenly. soak the potato sticks in cold water for about 30 minutes. then dry them. this “soaking” step makes crunchier fries. preheat your oven at 400 degrees. dry the taters and season them with salt, pepper or a special “french fry” seasoning blend available in stores. grease a cookie sheet with an oil or cooking spray and arrange the fries on the sheet in a single layer. cook for 20 minutes on one side. flip the fries over using a spatula and cook for 10 more minutes. then enjoy your healthier non-fried fries!,  , eating frugally doesn’t mean that you have to slave over a hot stove or that you cannot eat filling and tasty foods. with the money you save, you can prepare for retirement or use it to fulfill your dreams—such as self-publishing a book. i hope this article has been useful to you in some way. for more frugal tips and ideas, please subscribe to my blog “freedom in frugality” at https://krystalbrownblog.wordpress.com/., photo by charisse kenion][lifetickler, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, about the author, related posts]eat well without slaving over a hot stove[][home, health, money, parenting, relationship, society, technology, let’s connect contact us our rss feeds privacy policy terms of use acknowledgment about us, contact us, our rss feeds, privacy policy, terms of use, acknowledgment, about us, lotterycodex review: a mathematical strategy through the eyes of a clueless lotto gamer, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, digital parenting and monitoring solution for working moms, a lifelong thing, cakes are our forever favorites, the stock market is for you, 10 of the most unique homes on airbnb, perfect gifts for boyfriend’s parents for the first meeting, 12 remodelling tips that will transform your house into your dream home, how to draw like a pro (even if you are not an artist), 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, you’re a league of legends gamer now… here’s how you reach level 30 fast!, 10 tips relationship experts want to teach you about love, what everybody ought to know about showering with cold water, african women need healthy and nurtured pregnancy, do women need more sleep than men?, how to increase website conversion using color psychology, 7 mobile phone awesomeness you probably do not know, 7 signs that will hint at your steady relationship, how to make life easier for your elderly relatives, how to sleep better and faster, 5 tips to become a professional photographer, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 5 tips to help you hire your dream wedding band, tips and reasons to hire a professional chauffeur service, prepaid funeral services: protecting your loved ones from money worries, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, only a true insomniac would understand the beauty of sleeplessness, should the league of legends bring back the dominion map?, how to get the best bridesmaid gowns on your big day?, remember these tricks if you’re in an accident, dog debate: purebred vs. mutt, wine glass etching – a diy guide to ideas and patterns, are home security systems worth the money?, 7 ways to be romantic without being pretty cheesy or corny, how to save big on college textbooks, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, improve your finances in 2017, how to impress every professor, how reaching rock bottom helped me take control, pure grace part ii: the radical messages of grace, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, lottery prediction according to math – how to pick numbers to win, the anatomy of the supermom (and a little mother’s day history), amethyst engagement ring – a proposal of purple, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, parenthood: a list of sure but unusual signs that you are ready, good vibes: the what, when, where, and how of humanity’s favorite mantra, natural light photography: illuminating the beauty of the basics, cause of early hearing loss linked to a genetic mutation of an inhibitor, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part ii, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part i, a guide to buying a second hand car, you are a money-making machine: manifest & invest, are you pro or against a long distance relationship?, understanding car insurance, you should not take vitamin supplements, online banking + smartphone = a very cool life, guide on how and where to buy the best wheelchair, bulk of your money should be in the stock market – not in the bank, how i turn my mobile phone camera into a 24/7 money making machine, how forex works and why you should start trading now, why lottery should be taken more positively, surviving pre eclampsia and living to tell the tale (twice), having a great date even on a tight budget, fun and bizarre ways of making money on fiverr, women’s pregnancy fears: reasons why some women don’t want pregnancy, the ways of the words: what happened to grammar and spelling over the years?, dear mr. abercrombie & fitch, the world is round and beautiful – i hope you get the gist]