[when i applied to be a writer for lifetickler and our good publisher asked me to list down the topics or genres of what i wanted to write, i specifically said i wasn’t going to write about religion. not that i didn’t have one. i just didn’t like to stir controversies and set off debates. but this is not about religion. this is about faith. something i love to speak about. (so i guess i’ve kept my word to our publisher *wink*), as in most of the articles i write, this is a personal experience. in two of my previous articles, which contents are relevant to this topic, i have learned to attract my tribe with my better vibe,  and i have been able to easily manifest wealth in its many forms. was it through grace? well, i’m in a very long journey to finding that out but i may just discover it is so., i’ve encountered grace long ago. in fact, we all have. but it wasn’t until i became a part of a ministry (the tribe i attracted with my vibe) that truly and radically speaks, believes, and acts on the true grace that my past experiences came in full circle. i am tempted to tell you more about my experiences but i am afraid i might lose you in a self-focused babble. so as in any (modern) fairy tale (come true), let us begin with…, , image by kiran foster, in the dictionary, it is a noun, which means unmerited divine assistance given to humans for regeneration or sanctification. but that’s quite broad and heavy, right? let me quote a few churches to illustrate the difference or sameness of the concept regardless the denomination., according to the church of jesus christ of latter day saints:, it is likewise through the grace of the lord that individuals, through faith in the atonement of jesus christ and repentance of their sins, receive strength and assistance to do good works that they otherwise would not be able to maintain if left to their own means., the church of jesus christ of latter day saints bible dictionary, in the words of ellen g. white, a prolific author and one of the founders of now seventh day adventist church:, grace is an attribute of god exercised toward undeserving human beings. we did not seek for it, but it was sent in search of us. god rejoices to bestow his grace upon us, not because we are worthy, but because we are so utterly unworthy. our only claim to his mercy is our great need.—the ministry of healing, questions on doctrine: the relationship of grace to law and works, father michael azkoul in his article about the difference between roman catholicism and orthodoxy, recalls the latin theory of grace, which orthodoxy teaches:, …grace is uncreated, and impacts all creation. it is a mysterious extension of the divine nature. orthodox iconography reflects this truth, even as roman catholic statues reflect its idea of grace., now the catholics, especially those that took catechism classes follow two different kinds of grace [http://www.catholic.com/tracts/grace-what-it-is-and-what-it-does]:, …there are two kinds of grace, sanctifying and actual…sanctifying grace stays in the soul. it’s what makes the soul holy…actual grace, by contrast, is a supernatural push or encouragement. it’s transient. it doesn’t live in the soul, but acts on the soul from the outside…, across religions, the concept of grace is pretty much universal. i had come upon the lutheranism means of grace, reformed theology, and methodist understanding. although each sect may have entirely different means to express grace outwardly, the idea of how grace came upon us and what grace is to us are undeniably alike. it is a favor bestowed to the undeserving not through human merits, but through the holiness and death of jesus christ., okay, so you might say this is going acutely religious. that’s what i thought first, too. but along the way, i realized and learned that radical grace is really different. to a career woman in the modern setting, in the 21st century, this is good news. how i found the contrast, begins when i tried to understand the religion i grew up with, and eventually letting go of its human aspect., , image by wp paarz, i was born and eventually grew up in a family of devout roman catholics. that describes how i was brought up. holy rosary. the angelus. way of the cross. these were ways of expressing the character and depth of our faith. i am not enumerating this out of spite – in fact, as i am recalling it, i am filled with a pleasant kind of nostalgia. my childhood was colored with my days as an angel for flores de mayo and as one of the patroness in our local santacruzan. these are memories that will forever be lovingly burned in my soul., but as i grew older, i did not only see but felt and experienced the pain that goes with all of it. i am not talking about jesus’ death. that was divinely painful and no amount of offering, kneel-walking, repetition of memorized prayers, among many, will ever surpass that sacrifice. what i am talking about is the pain of condemnation. it was painful, and many times my belief would slowly dwindle because i later realized how tiresome and ironic it was to be religious. when i came to know about grace, i realized that the pain was coming from the belief by law., , image by learninglark , what is belief by god’s law?, atheists and agnostics cannot be blamed why they have this idea of god being a big bully. a punisher who is loved out of fear. this is partly because of how media and then quite a few religious outfits dress god up. the god of the old testament. a quote by richard dawkins from his book the god delusion, sums it all up as:, the god of the old testament is arguably the most unpleasant character in all fiction: jealous and proud of it; a petty, unjust, unforgiving control-freak; a vindictive, bloodthirsty ethnic cleanser; a misogynistic, homophobic, racist, infanticidal, genocidal, filicidal, pestilential, megalomaniacal, sadomasochistic, capriciously malevolent bully., that was how god was to me when i lived by his law. do the 10 commandments still ring a bell? those are laws. do and do not. when i did not the do and did the do not, i knew god must be angry and i was going to be punished. i was going to be cursed, so i need to go to church as often, pray our father repetitively, the list goes on. it was tiresome. it is tiresome. to think of a divine helper who is not very helpful. not to mention a handful of ironies, which are thoughtful but not really thought-through, ironies nonetheless. until i met grace., what is belief by god’s grace?, i am not just taking about amazing grace. how sweet that really sounds. but i am talking about radical grace, of which is even sweeter. why? because we do not need to be so tired, the work is done. jesus did it already – all the toiling needed to earn god’s respect as in the old testament. his death marks the beginning of the new testament, where we live by his grace and no longer by the law., now the take away. so since jesus did it all, do we still need to do anything to earn…what do we earn? the real question is; law vs grace: why is there so much conflict among christians on the issue?, one side says, “salvation is by grace and grace alone.” the other side counters, “that idea leads to lawlessness. god’s righteous standard in the law must be upheld.” and someone else chimes in with, “salvation is by grace, but grace only comes to those who obey god’s law.”, the christian churches, no matter the name, are now divided to those who live in god’s law, those who live partly in god’s law and partly in god’s grace, and quite a few who really live in the true, pure grace of god., the ministry (the tribe) i have begun to be a part of (coz it matches my vibe) flows with the pure gospel of grace. you might wonder, are we a lazy sort of lot who has relied on jesus’ finished work – and since we are free and clean, are we mindlessly sinning around? this is the difficult part to understand. surprisingly, we are not. but there isn’t so much work to do anymore. it’s all just about surrendering. what kind of surrendering? let me put that on hold for the second part of this article. you know, to keep things going and the discovery even more exciting just as i learned about it., if you ask me…, i know a lot of people who will vomit what i am saying here. to begin with, this is a radical idea, but it is already in place. for me it was easier to transition to grace, because of the many churches i’ve attended, many belief systems i have studied and appreciated. never have i seen or felt or believed a matter so closely appropriate and almost universal with other beliefs. i only needed to shed off the worldly ideas and go straight to the divine source., in the second part, i am very much excited to stir and shake conventional christian thinking. i am not the first one to do so. but it will be quite a revelation coming from me, as i write about the most controversial concepts of radical grace.][lifetickler, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, what is grace?, law and grace, law versus grace, about the author, related posts]pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time[sanctifying grace, actual grace, what is belief by god’s law?, what is belief by god’s grace?][home, health, money, parenting, relationship, society, technology, let’s connect contact us our rss feeds privacy policy terms of use acknowledgment about us, contact us, our rss feeds, privacy policy, terms of use, acknowledgment, about us, lotterycodex review: a mathematical strategy through the eyes of a clueless lotto gamer, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, digital parenting and monitoring solution for working moms, a lifelong thing, cakes are our forever favorites, the stock market is for you, 10 of the most unique homes on airbnb, perfect gifts for boyfriend’s parents for the first meeting, 12 remodelling tips that will transform your house into your dream home, how to draw like a pro (even if you are not an artist), 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, you’re a league of legends gamer now… here’s how you reach level 30 fast!, 10 tips relationship experts want to teach you about love, what everybody ought to know about showering with cold water, african women need healthy and nurtured pregnancy, do women need more sleep than men?, how to increase website conversion using color psychology, 7 mobile phone awesomeness you probably do not know, 7 signs that will hint at your steady relationship, how to make life easier for your elderly relatives, how to sleep better and faster, 5 tips to become a professional photographer, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 5 tips to help you hire your dream wedding band, tips and reasons to hire a professional chauffeur service, prepaid funeral services: protecting your loved ones from money worries, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, only a true insomniac would understand the beauty of sleeplessness, should the league of legends bring back the dominion map?, how to get the best bridesmaid gowns on your big day?, remember these tricks if you’re in an accident, dog debate: purebred vs. mutt, wine glass etching – a diy guide to ideas and patterns, are home security systems worth the money?, 7 ways to be romantic without being pretty cheesy or corny, how to save big on college textbooks, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, improve your finances in 2017, how to impress every professor, how reaching rock bottom helped me take control, pure grace part ii: the radical messages of grace, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, lottery prediction according to math – how to pick numbers to win, the anatomy of the supermom (and a little mother’s day history), amethyst engagement ring – a proposal of purple, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, parenthood: a list of sure but unusual signs that you are ready, good vibes: the what, when, where, and how of humanity’s favorite mantra, natural light photography: illuminating the beauty of the basics, cause of early hearing loss linked to a genetic mutation of an inhibitor, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part ii, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part i, a guide to buying a second hand car, you are a money-making machine: manifest & invest, are you pro or against a long distance relationship?, understanding car insurance, you should not take vitamin supplements, online banking + smartphone = a very cool life, guide on how and where to buy the best wheelchair, bulk of your money should be in the stock market – not in the bank, how i turn my mobile phone camera into a 24/7 money making machine, how forex works and why you should start trading now, why lottery should be taken more positively, surviving pre eclampsia and living to tell the tale (twice), having a great date even on a tight budget, fun and bizarre ways of making money on fiverr, women’s pregnancy fears: reasons why some women don’t want pregnancy, the ways of the words: what happened to grammar and spelling over the years?, dear mr. abercrombie & fitch, the world is round and beautiful – i hope you get the gist]