[your professor is your guide, mentor, and friend. he is your only guru who will give you and your work, a nice ride. he will take care of your research and evaluate your job every time. alright, let me stop writing beautiful words about professors. they are busiest people in the world., some even claim to be too busy when they are not. therefore, you should understand that they do not have enough time for your research. however, they will be euphoric when you show them results. they love results., by the way, do not forget to give them credit for each and every work you perform. even if they have no time and energy to provide you any ‘input’ for your job, you just have to ‘add their names in publication and other results.’ so, keep this in mind that you must credit them for no reason. not all the professor(s) are ‘spin head,’ some of them are extremely good and they provide good evaluation of your work., always show more than you do: this just means to present yourself as an active student even if you remain passive at your workplace., always ‘butter’ them: by ‘buttering,’ you can get close to your professors. try to hang out with them, play games and visit public places; become more personal towards them. the more friend you become; there is better chance that you will get real treatment at your workplace., lie more: yes, the more you lie to your professor the better impact you will have on them. if they will give you some work and you are not ready yet to complete it; just lie and say that you are sick or something., print more material: print a lot of references and put it on your work table. when professor visits at your workplace show to them that you are working incredibly hard to solve your research problem., make library: this is similar to point 4. get books from a library and arrange at your shelve. this will show that you are busy reading a lot of books., don’t give yourself a vague instruction or goal. be as accurate as possible. for instance, don’t tell yourself “i will see my professor someday.” change it to a more precise and forceful way “i will see my professor tomorrow morning from 10:00-11:00 a.m. during his office hour” or “i will see my professor this thursday by appointment.” once you have a clear picture of what to do at what time, you will not end up doing anything but making promises that could never be realized., this is only a start. don’t go to your professor’s office hour with nothing to talk to him. be prepared with some questions in reasonable amount and difficulty so that all of your questions could be addressed adequately by your professor. why?, how could you get him to enjoy the conversation? read the q&a platform, where you will find answers on your questions. you also need to demonstrate some basic etiquette which i’m sure every typical college student should have, you should let your professor feel the joy of helping you and making you appreciate his answers. so leave the time for him to address each question and make comments now and then to make sure that you are in pace with him. you should be bright in the sense of quickly comprehending what the professor will to enunciate rather than in the sense of outwitting professor., photo by tra nguyen][lifetickler, how to impress every professor, here are some tips to impress every professor:, the process of building a good relationship with your professor is the process of making the professor enjoy talking to you., about the author, related posts]how to impress every professor[always show more than you do:, always ‘butter’ them:, lie more:, print more material:, make library:, don’t give yourself a vague instruction or goal., this is only a start., how could you get him to enjoy the conversation?][home, health, money, parenting, relationship, society, technology, let’s connect contact us our rss feeds privacy policy terms of use acknowledgment about us, contact us, our rss feeds, privacy policy, terms of use, acknowledgment, about us, lotterycodex review: a mathematical strategy through the eyes of a clueless lotto gamer, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, digital parenting and monitoring solution for working moms, a lifelong thing, cakes are our forever favorites, the stock market is for you, 10 of the most unique homes on airbnb, perfect gifts for boyfriend’s parents for the first meeting, 12 remodelling tips that will transform your house into your dream home, how to draw like a pro (even if you are not an artist), 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, you’re a league of legends gamer now… here’s how you reach level 30 fast!, 10 tips relationship experts want to teach you about love, what everybody ought to know about showering with cold water, african women need healthy and nurtured pregnancy, do women need more sleep than men?, how to increase website conversion using color psychology, 7 mobile phone awesomeness you probably do not know, 7 signs that will hint at your steady relationship, how to make life easier for your elderly relatives, how to sleep better and faster, 5 tips to become a professional photographer, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 5 tips to help you hire your dream wedding band, tips and reasons to hire a professional chauffeur service, prepaid funeral services: protecting your loved ones from money worries, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, only a true insomniac would understand the beauty of sleeplessness, should the league of legends bring back the dominion map?, how to get the best bridesmaid gowns on your big day?, remember these tricks if you’re in an accident, dog debate: purebred vs. mutt, wine glass etching – a diy guide to ideas and patterns, are home security systems worth the money?, 7 ways to be romantic without being pretty cheesy or corny, how to save big on college textbooks, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, improve your finances in 2017, how to impress every professor, how reaching rock bottom helped me take control, pure grace part ii: the radical messages of grace, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, lottery prediction according to math – how to pick numbers to win, the anatomy of the supermom (and a little mother’s day history), amethyst engagement ring – a proposal of purple, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, parenthood: a list of sure but unusual signs that you are ready, good vibes: the what, when, where, and how of humanity’s favorite mantra, natural light photography: illuminating the beauty of the basics, cause of early hearing loss linked to a genetic mutation of an inhibitor, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part ii, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part i, a guide to buying a second hand car, you are a money-making machine: manifest & invest, are you pro or against a long distance relationship?, understanding car insurance, you should not take vitamin supplements, online banking + smartphone = a very cool life, guide on how and where to buy the best wheelchair, bulk of your money should be in the stock market – not in the bank, how i turn my mobile phone camera into a 24/7 money making machine, how forex works and why you should start trading now, why lottery should be taken more positively, surviving pre eclampsia and living to tell the tale (twice), having a great date even on a tight budget, fun and bizarre ways of making money on fiverr, women’s pregnancy fears: reasons why some women don’t want pregnancy, the ways of the words: what happened to grammar and spelling over the years?, dear mr. abercrombie & fitch, the world is round and beautiful – i hope you get the gist]