[let’s go through a few of the most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for in 2017 that can give your party that x-factor you’ve been craving for., cinematography coupled with still photography are considered a part and parcel of every wedding party. the demand for skilled wedding photographers is still quite high. but do remember that the very skilled photographers don’t use the traditional camera set up to take photos anymore., drones are the new hot topic of wedding photography as well as cinematography., with these drones, you’ll be able to capture the aerial footage of your weddings in a jiffy. who doesn’t like a bird’s eye view? almost nobody; right?, isn’t that exciting? course it is. it’s going to add to the excitement of your party and increase the level of fun a level or two., satellite bars are considered to be one of the hottest wedding trends of all. and the best thing of getting a satellite bar is a robot bartender that comes with it., your robot bartender will be capable of serving your guests drinks and entertain them at the same time with various cool tricks. want to up the wow factor? get a satellite bar in your party straight from the pages of a science fiction novel. well, it’s part of the reality now., wearable technology’s become extremely popular these days. the same thing is perfectly applicable in the case of weddings., integrate hi-tech wearables in your wedding plans to make the day more memorable. with these devices, you will be able to track things like heart rate, pulse rate, movements etc., now you will actually be able to answer questions like: ”how fast was your heart beating at the time of your first kiss?” isn’t that neat? you bet it is., photo booths are fun and are usually considered the heartbeat of every party. how about giving your photo booth a high-tech touch?, get yourself a mirror photo booth., mirror photo booths are the latest of all photo booth concepts. these photo booths capture full-length photographs through the use of a touch screen based reflective surface. just strike a pose and let the booth work its magic. you will be able to customize the photos inside the booth itself., your photo would be printed within ten minutes. that’s pretty neat; isn’t it? high tech stuff you wanted, high tech stuff you would get for sure., this one’s done mainly for those people who failed to attend your party for any reason whatsoever., through 360 degree videos, people would be able to get a 360-degree cinematic view of your wedding and visualize each and every significant incident of your wedding in minute details., several videographers have incorporated this technology in their wedding cinematography projects. they also provide the options of an app through which you will be able to send out personal invitations to the invitees who can then watch the 360-degree live stream on their respective mobile devices., 3d printers have created a huge buzz in this technology-oriented society. with the passage of time, they have become cheaper and also readily available., you can incorporate this technology in your wedding decorations. 3d printed decorations can be an inexpensive and stylish alternative to traditional decorative items. the best thing about this is that you are pushing up the hi-tech stuff of your wedding on one hand and your budget’s getting cared of on the other., so what do you think? aren’t these ideas cool? of course, they are!, photo by micheile henderson][lifetickler, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, 1. using drone for wedding cinematography and photography, 2. robot bartenders for all your cocktails and mocktails, 3. hi-tech wearables capable of tracking movements, 4. hire a mirror photo booth, 5. incorporate a 360-degree live stream of your party, 6. 3d print your wedding decorations, about the author, related posts]6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for[][home, health, money, parenting, relationship, society, technology, let’s connect contact us our rss feeds privacy policy terms of use acknowledgment about us, contact us, our rss feeds, privacy policy, terms of use, acknowledgment, about us, lotterycodex review: a mathematical strategy through the eyes of a clueless lotto gamer, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, digital parenting and monitoring solution for working moms, a lifelong thing, cakes are our forever favorites, the stock market is for you, 10 of the most unique homes on airbnb, perfect gifts for boyfriend’s parents for the first meeting, 12 remodelling tips that will transform your house into your dream home, how to draw like a pro (even if you are not an artist), 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, you’re a league of legends gamer now… here’s how you reach level 30 fast!, 10 tips relationship experts want to teach you about love, what everybody ought to know about showering with cold water, african women need healthy and nurtured pregnancy, do women need more sleep than men?, how to increase website conversion using color psychology, 7 mobile phone awesomeness you probably do not know, 7 signs that will hint at your steady relationship, how to make life easier for your elderly relatives, how to sleep better and faster, 5 tips to become a professional photographer, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 5 tips to help you hire your dream wedding band, tips and reasons to hire a professional chauffeur service, prepaid funeral services: protecting your loved ones from money worries, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, only a true insomniac would understand the beauty of sleeplessness, should the league of legends bring back the dominion map?, how to get the best bridesmaid gowns on your big day?, remember these tricks if you’re in an accident, dog debate: purebred vs. mutt, wine glass etching – a diy guide to ideas and patterns, are home security systems worth the money?, 7 ways to be romantic without being pretty cheesy or corny, how to save big on college textbooks, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, improve your finances in 2017, how to impress every professor, how reaching rock bottom helped me take control, pure grace part ii: the radical messages of grace, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, lottery prediction according to math – how to pick numbers to win, the anatomy of the supermom (and a little mother’s day history), amethyst engagement ring – a proposal of purple, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, parenthood: a list of sure but unusual signs that you are ready, good vibes: the what, when, where, and how of humanity’s favorite mantra, natural light photography: illuminating the beauty of the basics, cause of early hearing loss linked to a genetic mutation of an inhibitor, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part ii, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part i, a guide to buying a second hand car, you are a money-making machine: manifest & invest, are you pro or against a long distance relationship?, understanding car insurance, you should not take vitamin supplements, online banking + smartphone = a very cool life, guide on how and where to buy the best wheelchair, bulk of your money should be in the stock market – not in the bank, how i turn my mobile phone camera into a 24/7 money making machine, how forex works and why you should start trading now, why lottery should be taken more positively, surviving pre eclampsia and living to tell the tale (twice), having a great date even on a tight budget, fun and bizarre ways of making money on fiverr, women’s pregnancy fears: reasons why some women don’t want pregnancy, the ways of the words: what happened to grammar and spelling over the years?, dear mr. abercrombie & fitch, the world is round and beautiful – i hope you get the gist]