[it’s easy to feel guilty about driving past the sadness of the situation without parting with a dollar or two… yet you don’t like the idea of giving money to someone who very well may be panhandling for another quart of beer and pack of cigarettes., what should you do? what can you do?, here are a few ideas., giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, booze, drugs, and mental issues can take anyone down. former unc lineman, ryan hoffman, died last year, having spent months living on the street and begging for a living., embarrassment kept soccer star christina burkenroad from telling her classmates that she was sleeping in a parking lot. and actor john drew barrymore dropped out of hollywood’s inner circles to make the rounds of city jails and hospitals for alcohol and drug overdoses., that homeless couple you’re staring at from inside your air-conditioned car have a past that may have been as comfortable as your present situation. their story may not be about addiction. there are plenty of ways to go broke and end up homeless. it could happen to any of us some day., i was in the checkout line at the grocery store, wanting to get going to an appointment. the lady in front of me was trying to buy a bottle of cheap wine with food stamps, and the clerk wasn’t going for it. i started to pay for it myself, just to get the line moving, but something told me not to – a “check in my spirit,” you might say., after my meeting, i drove back by the store. there were police barricades and plenty of activity at the park across the street. the clerk told me the woman had stood outside the store panhandling to get enough money for her bottle. she took it to the park and another homeless person stabbed her to get it for himself. she died., other times, i’ve felt that i should help someone out, and it’s worked out well. some people legitimately need money for food. others are feeding an addiction. many simply find it easier to beg than to work. let your gut be your guide., travelers, especially, may not know where a local shelter or soup kitchen is. learn about your community and let the needy know. i saw a young woman with a sign saying “homeless and pregnant.” i put her in touch with a local church that ministers to girls in trouble. another guy needed medicine, and he was a veteran. i took him to the local va satellite clinic., chances are high that there’s more help available in your locale than you know about. don’t assume everyone on the street knows about the options. many don’t. you may not have the money to spare to help them find shelter and food. it could be that those things are close at hand, if they only knew where., , be careful with this one. there are plenty of scams out there. some have great names, but mask what they really do. kars4kids, for instance, a nonprofit that brings in millions of dollars every year with advertising featuring young people ran into legal problems when watchdogs discovered their funds go to help a jewish organization and that their promised “free vacations” were actually timeshare offers., your best bet may be to find local charities to invest in. you can donate more than your money like that. volunteer to help cook or serve. if you’re a business person, go help those who want to get back on their feed find work or launch a dream. opportunities to help those who need a hand up are vast., giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, you know the answer. of course you should help. we all should help. it’s not the government’s job to take care of the poor, it’s our job to help one another., how should you do it, though? that’s the big question. by listening to your gut, finding out where local help exists, and helping those local agencies thrive, you can make a real difference in the lives of others., do it., this article is written by abel cane and was published here with permission., abel cane knows about the plight of the homeless. he sees it on the streets of portland, oregon, every day. abel tells folks to not let pride get in the way of helping someone who needs a hand up., image credit:][lifetickler, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, 1. let your gut be your guide when giving to the poor, 2. know where help is and be ready to point the way, 3. give to local agencies, about the author, related posts]giving money to the homeless – should you do it?[giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?][home, health, money, parenting, relationship, society, technology, let’s connect contact us our rss feeds privacy policy terms of use acknowledgment about us, contact us, our rss feeds, privacy policy, terms of use, acknowledgment, about us, featured image: creative commons image source, 2nd image: creative commons image source, lotterycodex review: a mathematical strategy through the eyes of a clueless lotto gamer, everything to know about stretch marks during pregnancy, digital parenting and monitoring solution for working moms, a lifelong thing, cakes are our forever favorites, the stock market is for you, 10 of the most unique homes on airbnb, perfect gifts for boyfriend’s parents for the first meeting, 12 remodelling tips that will transform your house into your dream home, how to draw like a pro (even if you are not an artist), 8 reasons why i regret buying a diy home alarm system, lottometrix review – 7 things you should know before you join, you’re a league of legends gamer now… here’s how you reach level 30 fast!, 10 tips relationship experts want to teach you about love, what everybody ought to know about showering with cold water, african women need healthy and nurtured pregnancy, do women need more sleep than men?, how to increase website conversion using color psychology, 7 mobile phone awesomeness you probably do not know, 7 signs that will hint at your steady relationship, how to make life easier for your elderly relatives, how to sleep better and faster, 5 tips to become a professional photographer, eat well without slaving over a hot stove, what is expense tracking and how it helps an entrepreneur?, 5 tips to help you hire your dream wedding band, tips and reasons to hire a professional chauffeur service, prepaid funeral services: protecting your loved ones from money worries, a look at syria through the eyes of its many flags, only a true insomniac would understand the beauty of sleeplessness, should the league of legends bring back the dominion map?, how to get the best bridesmaid gowns on your big day?, remember these tricks if you’re in an accident, dog debate: purebred vs. mutt, wine glass etching – a diy guide to ideas and patterns, are home security systems worth the money?, 7 ways to be romantic without being pretty cheesy or corny, how to save big on college textbooks, 6 most popular high-tech wedding trends to look out for, improve your finances in 2017, how to impress every professor, how reaching rock bottom helped me take control, pure grace part ii: the radical messages of grace, pure grace part i: unraveling a radically important message of our time, lottery prediction according to math – how to pick numbers to win, the anatomy of the supermom (and a little mother’s day history), amethyst engagement ring – a proposal of purple, giving money to the homeless – should you do it?, parenthood: a list of sure but unusual signs that you are ready, good vibes: the what, when, where, and how of humanity’s favorite mantra, natural light photography: illuminating the beauty of the basics, cause of early hearing loss linked to a genetic mutation of an inhibitor, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part ii, real time parenting: additional tips to your never ending list of parenting strategies part i, a guide to buying a second hand car, you are a money-making machine: manifest & invest, are you pro or against a long distance relationship?, understanding car insurance, you should not take vitamin supplements, online banking + smartphone = a very cool life, guide on how and where to buy the best wheelchair, bulk of your money should be in the stock market – not in the bank, how i turn my mobile phone camera into a 24/7 money making machine, how forex works and why you should start trading now, why lottery should be taken more positively, surviving pre eclampsia and living to tell the tale (twice), having a great date even on a tight budget, fun and bizarre ways of making money on fiverr, women’s pregnancy fears: reasons why some women don’t want pregnancy, the ways of the words: what happened to grammar and spelling over the years?, dear mr. abercrombie & fitch, the world is round and beautiful – i hope you get the gist]