[as a precautionary health measure for our support specialists in light of covid-19, we're operating with a limited team. thanks for your patience, as it may take longer than usual to connect with us. for additional support, consult the help center. , explore the topics below to learn about features for families in google play., ads are expected to be consistent with the maturity rating of the app or game. ad serving can change over time so you should check what types of ads are being shown from time to time., if you see ads that aren't appropriate for the age group the app was designed for, report the ad to google., you can share purchased apps, games, movies, tv shows, and books from google play with up to 5 other family members once you set-up google play family library.][parent guide to google play, find family-friendly content, supervise your child’s account, get family link, ads in family apps, use parental controls to restrict mature content, prevent accidental purchases with password protection , use google play family librarylearn more about passwords and authentication., need more help?, sign in for additional support options to quickly solve your issue, google play apps & digital content]parent guide to google play - google play help[games, apps, kids, movies & tv, family, books, children's books][help center, community, google play, privacy policy, google play terms of service, submit feedback, on your android phone or tablet, open the google play store  ., tap games, or apps. at the top, tap kids. all apps in this section are teacher approved. learn more about the teacher approved badge., at the top, tap kids. all apps in this section are teacher approved. learn more about the teacher approved badge., all apps in this section are teacher approved. learn more about the teacher approved badge., for movies & tv, tap family., for books, tap children's books., automatically lock your child’s screen for bedtime., block apps you don’t want your child to use., set screen limits., approve purchases and new apps that your child wants to download, and more., download family link., add supervision to your child’s google account or create a google account for your child., select your settings., get started with google play, help by product type, get android apps & digital content from the google play store, parent guide to google play, find the google play store app, about google play, ©2022 google, privacy policy, google play terms of service]