[an official website of the united states government, here's how you know, official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states., secure .gov websites use https a lock () or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites., latest earthquakes |   chat  share , meteorites are fragments of rock or metal that fall to earth from space. they are very rare, but many people find unusual rocks or pieces of metal and wonder if they might have found a meteorite., meteorites have several properties that help distinguish them from other rocks:, meteorites do not have the following:, these tips for identifying a meteorite were adapted from this excellent guide from the university of new mexico meteorite museum. please refer to their site for additional information., always keep in mind that rocks and minerals must be examined in person for proper identification. for suggestions on where to do that, see: can you identify my rock or mineral?,  , there are many natural processes other than impacts that can create circular features and depressions on the surface of the earth. examples include glaciation, volcanism, sinkholes, atolls, salt domes, intrusions, and hydrothermal explosions (to name just a few). prehistoric mines and quarries are also sometimes mistaken for impact craters. although the usgs has been involved in impact crater..., there are many natural processes other than impacts that can create circular features and depressions on the surface of the earth. examples include glaciation, volcanism, sinkholes, atolls, salt domes, intrusions, and hydrothermal explosions (to name just a few). prehistoric mines and quarries are also sometimes mistaken for impact craters. although the usgs has been involved in impact crater..., rocks and minerals must be examined in person from all perspectives for accurate identification; they are extremely difficult to identify through photographs. you will get the best results by taking your rock or mineral to a local source where it can be handled and examined closely. possibilities include:your state geological surveya natural science museuma college or university with a geology..., rocks and minerals must be examined in person from all perspectives for accurate identification; they are extremely difficult to identify through photographs. you will get the best results by taking your rock or mineral to a local source where it can be handled and examined closely. possibilities include:your state geological surveya natural science museuma college or university with a geology..., a mineral is a naturally occurring inorganic element or compound having an orderly internal structure and characteristic chemical composition, crystal form, and physical properties. common minerals include quartz, feldspar, mica, amphibole, olivine, and calcite. a rock is an aggregate of one or more minerals, or a body of undifferentiated mineral matter. common rocks include granite, basalt..., a mineral is a naturally occurring inorganic element or compound having an orderly internal structure and characteristic chemical composition, crystal form, and physical properties. common minerals include quartz, feldspar, mica, amphibole, olivine, and calcite. a rock is an aggregate of one or more minerals, or a body of undifferentiated mineral matter. common rocks include granite, basalt..., first identified in a meteorite found in africa in 2014, the calcium-aluminum silicate mineral has been named in honor of lunar geologist and usgs..., there are many natural processes other than impacts that can create circular features and depressions on the surface of the earth. examples include glaciation, volcanism, sinkholes, atolls, salt domes, intrusions, and hydrothermal explosions (to name just a few). prehistoric mines and quarries are also sometimes mistaken for impact craters. although the usgs has been involved in impact crater..., there are many natural processes other than impacts that can create circular features and depressions on the surface of the earth. examples include glaciation, volcanism, sinkholes, atolls, salt domes, intrusions, and hydrothermal explosions (to name just a few). prehistoric mines and quarries are also sometimes mistaken for impact craters. although the usgs has been involved in impact crater..., rocks and minerals must be examined in person from all perspectives for accurate identification; they are extremely difficult to identify through photographs. you will get the best results by taking your rock or mineral to a local source where it can be handled and examined closely. possibilities include:your state geological surveya natural science museuma college or university with a geology..., rocks and minerals must be examined in person from all perspectives for accurate identification; they are extremely difficult to identify through photographs. you will get the best results by taking your rock or mineral to a local source where it can be handled and examined closely. possibilities include:your state geological surveya natural science museuma college or university with a geology..., a mineral is a naturally occurring inorganic element or compound having an orderly internal structure and characteristic chemical composition, crystal form, and physical properties. common minerals include quartz, feldspar, mica, amphibole, olivine, and calcite. a rock is an aggregate of one or more minerals, or a body of undifferentiated mineral matter. common rocks include granite, basalt..., a mineral is a naturally occurring inorganic element or compound having an orderly internal structure and characteristic chemical composition, crystal form, and physical properties. common minerals include quartz, feldspar, mica, amphibole, olivine, and calcite. a rock is an aggregate of one or more minerals, or a body of undifferentiated mineral matter. common rocks include granite, basalt..., first identified in a meteorite found in africa in 2014, the calcium-aluminum silicate mineral has been named in honor of lunar geologist and usgs...][breadcrumb, i think i found a meteorite. how can i tell for sure?, related content, related content, explore search, u.s. department of the interior, contact usgs]i think i found a meteorite. how can i tell for sure? | u.s. geological survey[official websites use .gov, .gov, secure .gov websites use https, lock (), https://, density, magnetic, unusual shape, fusion crust, light-colored crystals, bubbles, streak][science science explorer biology climate coasts ecosystems energy environmental health geology information systems maps and mapping methods and analyses minerals ocean natural hazards planetary science science technology water mission areas core science systems ecosystems energy and minerals natural hazards water resources programs unified interior regions region 1: north atlantic-appalachian region 2: south atlantic-gulf (includes puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands) region 3: great lakes region 4: mississippi basin region 5: missouri basin region 6: arkansas-rio grande-texas-gulf region 7: upper colorado basin region 8: lower colorado basin region 9: columbia-pacific northwest region 10: california-great basin region 11: alaska region 12: pacific islands (american samoa, hawaii, guam, commonwealth of the northern mariana islands) science centers observatories laboratories frequently asked questions educational resources, science explorer biology climate coasts ecosystems energy environmental health geology information systems maps and mapping methods and analyses minerals ocean natural hazards planetary science science technology water, biology, climate, coasts, ecosystems, energy, environmental health, geology, information systems, maps and mapping, methods and analyses, minerals, ocean, natural hazards, planetary science, science technology, water, mission areas core science systems ecosystems energy and minerals natural hazards water resources, core science systems, ecosystems, energy and minerals, natural hazards, water resources, programs, unified interior regions region 1: north atlantic-appalachian region 2: south atlantic-gulf (includes puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands) region 3: great lakes region 4: mississippi basin region 5: missouri basin region 6: arkansas-rio grande-texas-gulf region 7: upper colorado basin region 8: lower colorado basin region 9: columbia-pacific northwest region 10: california-great basin region 11: alaska region 12: pacific islands (american samoa, hawaii, guam, commonwealth of the northern mariana islands), region 1: north atlantic-appalachian, region 2: south atlantic-gulf (includes puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands), region 3: great lakes, region 4: mississippi basin, region 5: missouri basin, region 6: arkansas-rio grande-texas-gulf, region 7: upper colorado basin, region 8: lower colorado basin, region 9: columbia-pacific northwest, region 10: california-great basin, region 11: alaska, region 12: pacific islands (american samoa, hawaii, guam, commonwealth of the northern mariana islands), science centers, observatories, laboratories, frequently asked questions, educational resources, products data data management data releases real-time data all data maps map releases topographic (topo) maps volcanic maps all maps multimedia gallery audio before and after images images slideshows stereograms videos webcams all multimedia publications web tools apis data access tools data analysis tools data repositories data visualizations interactive maps all web tools software u.s. board on geographic names the national map usgs library usgs store park passes, data data management data releases real-time data all data, data management, data releases, real-time data, all data, maps map releases topographic (topo) maps volcanic maps all maps, map releases, topographic (topo) maps, volcanic maps, all maps, multimedia gallery audio before and after images images slideshows stereograms videos webcams all multimedia, audio, before and after images, images, slideshows, stereograms, videos, webcams, all multimedia, publications, web tools apis data access tools data analysis tools data repositories data visualizations interactive maps all web tools, apis, data access tools, data analysis tools, data repositories, data visualizations, interactive maps, all web tools, software, u.s. board on geographic names, the national map, usgs library, usgs store, park passes, news news releases national news releases state news releases all news releases featured stories science snippets technical announcements employees in the news get our news media contacts i'm a reporter earthquake questions request footage multimedia gallery congressional, news releases national news releases state news releases all news releases, national news releases, state news releases, all news releases, featured stories, science snippets, technical announcements, employees in the news, get our news, media contacts, i'm a reporter earthquake questions request footage multimedia gallery congressional, earthquake questions, request footage, multimedia gallery, congressional, connect headquarters 12201 sunrise valley drive reston, va 20192 703-648-5953 geology and hydrology of the usgs site usgs woodland and rock garden walks locations staff profiles social media careers contact us 1-888-392-8545 email web chat usgs store 1-888-275-8747, headquarters 12201 sunrise valley drive reston, va 20192 703-648-5953 geology and hydrology of the usgs site usgs woodland and rock garden walks, 12201 sunrise valley drive reston, va 20192, 703-648-5953, geology and hydrology of the usgs site, usgs woodland and rock garden walks, locations, staff profiles, social media, careers, contact us 1-888-392-8545 email web chat usgs store 1-888-275-8747, 1-888-392-8545, email, web chat, usgs store 1-888-275-8747, about about us who we are our history past directors survey manual organization mission areas programs unified interior regions science centers observatories laboratories science support offices key officials congressional briefing series statements contacts budget careers and employees doing business acquisitions contracts and grants partners and cooperators building partnerships emergency management, about us who we are our history past directors, who we are, our history, past directors, survey manual, organization mission areas programs unified interior regions science centers observatories laboratories science support offices, mission areas, programs, unified interior regions, science centers, observatories, laboratories, science support offices, key officials, congressional briefing series statements contacts, briefing series, statements, contacts, budget, careers and employees, doing business acquisitions contracts and grants partners and cooperators building partnerships, acquisitions, contracts and grants, partners and cooperators, building partnerships, emergency management,  facebook,  twitter,  linkedin,  digg,  reddit,  pinterest,  email, science science explorer mission areas programs unified interior regions science centers observatories laboratories frequently asked questions educational resources, science explorer, mission areas, programs, unified interior regions, science centers, observatories, laboratories, frequently asked questions, educational resources, products data maps multimedia gallery publications web tools software u.s. board on geographic names the national map usgs library usgs store park passes, data, maps, multimedia gallery, publications, web tools, software, u.s. board on geographic names, the national map, usgs library, usgs store, park passes, news news releases featured stories science snippets technical announcements employees in the news get our news media contacts i'm a reporter, news releases, featured stories, science snippets, technical announcements, employees in the news, get our news, media contacts, i'm a reporter, connect headquarters locations staff profiles social media careers contact us, headquarters, locations, staff profiles, social media, careers, contact us, about about us survey manual organization key officials congressional budget careers and employees doing business emergency management, about us, survey manual, organization, key officials, congressional, budget, careers and employees, doing business, emergency management, latest earthquakes, web chat, share  facebook  twitter  linkedin  digg  reddit  pinterest  email,  facebook,  twitter,  linkedin,  digg,  reddit,  pinterest,  email, frequently asked questions, geology, density: meteorites are usually quite heavy for their size, since they contain metallic iron and dense minerals., magnetic: since most meteorites contain metallic iron, a magnet will often stick to them. for “stony” meteorites, a magnet might not stick, but if you hang the magnet by a string, it will be attracted., unusual shape: iron-nickel meteorites are rarely rounded. instead, they have an irregular shape with unusual pits like finger prints in their surface called “regmaglypts.”, fusion crust: stony meteorites typically have a thin crust on their surface where it melted as it passed through the atmosphere., light-colored crystals: quartz is a common, light-colored crystal in earth’s crust, but it is not found on other bodies in the solar system., bubbles: volcanic rocks or metallic slag on earth often have bubbles or vesicles in them, but meteorites do not., streak: if you scratch a meteorite on an unglazed ceramic surface, it should not leave a streak. a dense rock that leaves a black or red streak probably contains the iron minerals magnetite or hematite, respectively, neither of which are typically found in meteorites., faq, multimedia, publications, news, faq label link how can i tell if i have found an impact crater? there are many natural processes other than impacts that can create circular features and depressions on the surface of the earth. examples include glaciation, volcanism, sinkholes, atolls, salt domes, intrusions, and hydrothermal explosions (to name just a few). prehistoric mines and quarries are also sometimes mistaken for impact craters. although the usgs has been involved in impact crater... link how can i tell if i have found an impact crater? there are many natural processes other than impacts that can create circular features and depressions on the surface of the earth. examples include glaciation, volcanism, sinkholes, atolls, salt domes, intrusions, and hydrothermal explosions (to name just a few). prehistoric mines and quarries are also sometimes mistaken for impact craters. although the usgs has been involved in impact crater... learn more link can you identify my rock or mineral? rocks and minerals must be examined in person from all perspectives for accurate identification; they are extremely difficult to identify through photographs. you will get the best results by taking your rock or mineral to a local source where it can be handled and examined closely. possibilities include:your state geological surveya natural science museuma college or university with a geology... link can you identify my rock or mineral? rocks and minerals must be examined in person from all perspectives for accurate identification; they are extremely difficult to identify through photographs. you will get the best results by taking your rock or mineral to a local source where it can be handled and examined closely. possibilities include:your state geological surveya natural science museuma college or university with a geology... learn more link what is the difference between a rock and a mineral? a mineral is a naturally occurring inorganic element or compound having an orderly internal structure and characteristic chemical composition, crystal form, and physical properties. common minerals include quartz, feldspar, mica, amphibole, olivine, and calcite. a rock is an aggregate of one or more minerals, or a body of undifferentiated mineral matter. common rocks include granite, basalt... link what is the difference between a rock and a mineral? a mineral is a naturally occurring inorganic element or compound having an orderly internal structure and characteristic chemical composition, crystal form, and physical properties. common minerals include quartz, feldspar, mica, amphibole, olivine, and calcite. a rock is an aggregate of one or more minerals, or a body of undifferentiated mineral matter. common rocks include granite, basalt... learn more, multimedia label link link link link, publications label august 1, 1998 the chesapeake bay bolide impact: a new view of coastal plain evolution a spectacular geological event took place on the atlantic margin of north america about 35 million years ago in the late part of the eocene epoch. sea level was unusually high everywhere on earth, and the ancient shoreline of the virginia region was somewhere in the vicinity of where richmond is today (fig. 1). tropical rain forests covered the slopes of the appalachians. to the east of a narrow c by woods hole coastal and marine science center may 1, 1998 chicxulub impact event; computer animations and paper models january 1, 1994 the geologic classification of the meteorites the meteorite classes of prior and mason are assigned to three proposed genetic groups on the basis of a combination of compositional, mineralogical, and elemental characteristics: l) the calcium-poor, volatile-rich carbonaceous chondrites and achondrites; 2) the calcium-poor, volatile-poor chondrites (enstatite, bronzite, hypersthene, and pigeonite), achondrites (enstatite, hypersthene, and pigeo january 1, 1994 gold in meteorites and in the earth's crust the reported gold contents of meteorites range from 0.0003 to 8.74 parts per million. gold is siderophilic, and the greatest amounts in meteorites are in the iron phases. estimates ,of the gold content of the earth's crust are in the range of 0.001 to 0.006 parts per million. january 1, 1990 collecting rocks january 1, 1986 meteoroids and impact craters on a clear night scores of meteoroids streak across the sky. they leave light paths we call meteors or shooting stars as the earth is showered with debris from distant parts of the solar system. when these meteoroids hit the earth (as meteorites) they range in size from pebbles to the 34 ton ahnighito meteorite that the american explorer admiral robert peary discovered in greenland. the unique imp, news label link december 8, 2020 mineral first identified in lunar meteorite named after former usgs astrogeology scientist first identified in a meteorite found in africa in 2014, the calcium-aluminum silicate mineral has been named in honor of lunar geologist and usgs... read article, geology general, geology, geology, astrogeology, science explorer, mission areas, programs, unified interior regions, science centers, observatories, laboratories, frequently asked questions, educational resources, data, maps, publications, multimedia gallery, web tools, software, u.s. board on geographic names, the national map, usgs library, usgs store, park passes, featured stories, news releases, science snippets, technical announcements, employees in the news, get our news, media contacts, i'm a reporter, headquarters, locations, staff profiles, social media, careers, contact us, about us, survey manual, organization, key officials, congressional, budget, careers and employees, doing business, emergency management, accessibility, foia, legal, privacy policy, site map, doi and usgs link policies apply]