[google translate service may not work with internet explorer., #shastaready, contact us, covid-19 continues to spread in our community, so please get vaccinated and take appropriate precautions to protect yourself and others., it's recommend that everyone ages 5 years and older get vaccinated to help protect against covid-19., and, everyone age 12 and up is eligible to get a first booster dose., the second booster dose is now authorized for eligible people. , visit myturn.ca.gov or click the “vaccine updates” button below to find options to book your booster or vaccine.  , in part 1 of ask the experts, shasta county doctors discuss many topics, including natural immunity versus immunity from the vaccine. they address vaccine side effects and ideas about whether the vaccine alters dna. the doctors explain who’s most at risk from the virus, answer questions about vaccine ingredients, safety, and how mrna vaccines work. lastly, they discuss whether it’s better to catch the virus or to get the vaccine to prevent it., part 2 of ask the experts will cover treatments for covid-19, pregnancy, children and covid-19 risk and masking., the questions posed were submitted by shasta county residents, and collected by shasta county health and human services agency., kixe channel 9 will feature part 1 of ask the experts on tuesday, march 8 at 7:30 p.m and part 2 on tuesday, march 15 at 7:30 p.m., find the latest information about covid-19 in shasta county., dashboards show the current status of covid-19 in shasta county., find vaccine resources and answers to frequently asked questions. , find a testing option that works best for you., business resources, including how to report an outbreak (3 or more cases in 14 days)., find local answers to many of the most asked questions about covid-19., learn about assistance programs for businesses and residents., find additional resources for prevention, medical, food, parenting, and homeschooling., this is an official website of shasta county, california, legal disclaimer][covid-19, shasta ready, social media, covid-19 in shasta county, ask the experts part 1- shasta county doctors answer community questions about covid-19, ask the experts part 2 - shasta county doctors answer community questions about covid-19, what if i test positive or know someone who has?, find a covid-19 vaccine or booster appointment., current news, data and statistics, boosters and vaccinations, get tested!, for businesses, frequently asked questions, resources, shasta ready, resources, social media]shasta ready - covid-19 - overview[shasta county hhsa, contact us,  , first , second booster dose, latest information, current status, vaccine resources, testing option, local answers, assistance programs, additional resources, shasta county, california][shasta ready, covid-19, covid-19 overview, covid-19 overview, symptoms, boosters and vaccinations vaccine frequently asked questions children, teens and vaccines, vaccine frequently asked questions, children, teens and vaccines, medications and treatments, business resources, cares act, current news past daily updates, past daily updates, data and statistics, faqs and mythbusters, get tested, medical professionals treatments and therapeutics health advisories and updates, treatments and therapeutics, health advisories and updates, quarantine and isolation instructions, roadmap to recovery star program participants, star program participants, resources caring for your mental health medical resources family and household printable materials, caring for your mental health, medical resources, family and household, printable materials, schools, stop the spread, shasta ready overview, emergency job matching, covid-19, public safety power shutoff, wildfire, ages 5-17 can receive pfizer-biontech, ages 18+ can receive pfizer-biontech, moderna and johnson & johnson, what if i test positive or know someone who has? quarantine and isolation instructions, quarantine and isolation instructions, find a covid-19 vaccine or booster appointment. my turn, my turn, current news find the latest information about covid-19 in shasta county. current news, data and statistics dashboards show the current status of covid-19 in shasta county. data and statistics, boosters and vaccinations find vaccine resources and answers to frequently asked questions.  vaccine updates, vaccine updates, get tested! find a testing option that works best for you. get tested , for businesses business resources, including how to report an outbreak (3 or more cases in 14 days). for businesses, frequently asked questions find local answers to many of the most asked questions about covid-19. covid-19 faq, resources learn about assistance programs for businesses and residents. find additional resources for prevention, medical, food, parenting, and homeschooling. resources, overview, covid-19, public safety power shutoff, wildfire, emergency job matching]