[we use cookies to distinguish you from other users and to provide you with a better experience on our websites. close this message to accept cookies or find out how to manage your cookie settings., published online by cambridge university press:  13 december 2019, the ways in which women and men differ in intelligence and specific cognitive abilities are among psychology’s most heated controversies. massive amounts of data show that although there are some on average differences in specific cognitive abilities, there is considerable overlap in the male and female distributions. there are no sex differences in general intelligence – standardized iq tests were written to show no differences, and separate assessments that were not written with this criterion show no differences in general intelligence. there are more males in some categories of mental disability that are genetically linked, but there are no genetic explanations for differential achievement at the high end of the distributions. average between-sex differences on specific cognitive abilities – notably reading and writing (female advantage) and some mathematical and visuospatial abilities (male advantage) – often show considerable cross-cultural variation in effect size. additionally, there have been changes over time so that any conclusions about this controversial topic that we make today may need to be revised in the future., loading..., to save this book to your kindle, first ensure coreplatform@cambridge.org is added to your approved personal document e-mail list under your personal document settings on the manage your content and devices page of your amazon account. then enter the ‘name’ part of your kindle email address below. find out more about saving to your kindle., note you can select to save to either the @free.kindle.com or @kindle.com variations. ‘@free.kindle.com’ emails are free but can only be saved to your device when it is connected to wi-fi. ‘@kindle.com’ emails can be delivered even when you are not connected to wi-fi, but note that service fees apply., find out more about the kindle personal document service., to save content items to your account, please confirm that you agree to abide by our usage policies. if this is the first time you use this feature, you will be asked to authorise cambridge core to connect with your account. find out more about saving content to dropbox., to save content items to your account, please confirm that you agree to abide by our usage policies. if this is the first time you use this feature, you will be asked to authorise cambridge core to connect with your account. find out more about saving content to google drive.][book contents, 14 - sex differences in intelligence, from part iii - intelligence and group differences, summary, keywords, access options, purchase, references, cited by, save book to kindle, save book to dropbox, save book to google drive, ]sex differences in intelligence (chapter 14) - the cambridge handbook of intelligence[13 december 2019][, home, log in, register, browse subjects, what we publish, services, about cambridge core, , , institution login, , register, log in, home, >books, >the cambridge handbook of intelligence, >sex differences in intelligence, the cambridge handbook of intelligence, the cambridge handbook of intelligence, copyright page, dedication, contents, figures, tables, contributors, preface, part i intelligence and its measurement, part ii development of intelligence, part iii intelligence and group differences, 11 intellectual disability, 12 prodigies and savants, 13 intellectual giftedness, 14 sex differences in intelligence, 15 racial and ethnic group differences in intelligence in the united states, 16 race and intelligence, part iv biology of intelligence, part v intelligence and information processing, part vi kinds of intelligence, part vii intelligence and its role in society, part viii intelligence and allied constructs, part ix folk conceptions of intelligence, part x conclusion, author index, subject index, references, chapter, the cambridge handbook of intelligence, the cambridge handbook of intelligence, copyright page, dedication, contents, figures, tables, contributors, preface, part i intelligence and its measurement, part ii development of intelligence, part iii intelligence and group differences, 11 intellectual disability, 12 prodigies and savants, 13 intellectual giftedness, 14 sex differences in intelligence, 15 racial and ethnic group differences in intelligence in the united states, 16 race and intelligence, part iv biology of intelligence, part v intelligence and information processing, part vi kinds of intelligence, part vii intelligence and its role in society, part viii intelligence and allied constructs, part ix folk conceptions of intelligence, part x conclusion, author index, subject index, references, sex differences in intelligence, by diane f. halpern, jonathan wai, by diane f. halpern, jonathan wai, edited by robert j. sternberg, cornell university, new york, book: the cambridge handbook of intelligence, online publication: 13 december 2019, chapter doi: https://doi.org/10.1017/9781108770422.015, sex differences in intelligence, by diane f. halpern, jonathan wai, by diane f. halpern, jonathan wai, edited by robert j. sternberg, cornell university, new york, book: the cambridge handbook of intelligence, online publication: 13 december 2019, chapter doi: https://doi.org/10.1017/9781108770422.015, sex differences in intelligence, by diane f. halpern, jonathan wai, by diane f. halpern, jonathan wai, edited by robert j. sternberg, cornell university, new york, book: the cambridge handbook of intelligence, online publication: 13 december 2019, chapter doi: https://doi.org/10.1017/9781108770422.015, librarians, authors, publishing partners, agents, corporates, additional information accessibility our blog news contact and help cambridge core legal notices feedback sitemap join us online, accessibility, our blog, news, contact and help, cambridge core legal notices, feedback, sitemap, , , , , , legal information rights & permissions copyright privacy notice terms of use cookies policy © cambridge university press 2022 back to top, , rights & permissions, copyright, privacy notice, terms of use, cookies policy, © cambridge university press 2022, back to top, © cambridge university press 2022, back to top]