[biology + beyond, brain, cosmos, earth, ocean, quanta abstractions, science philanthropy alliance, spark of science, women in science & engineering, welcome to nautilus. like captain nemo we’re embarked on a voyage into the wonders of the universe. our stories take you into the depths of science and spotlight its ripples in our lives and cultures. we believe any subject in science, no matter how complex, can be explained with clarity and vitality. we venture into the fields of anthropology, geology, and paleontology. we infiltrate the labs of astronomy, genetics, and physics. when science ventures into the arts, we follow. there’s a story in everything and we follow the story wherever it leads us. our writers—journalists and scientists—educate and enlighten and entertain. our illustrators put your imaginations into flight. science is an amazing journey. we’re glad to have you aboard., nautilusnext ceo, publisher and editorial director, editor, managing editor, associate editor, professor of medicine and engineering at the university of southern california, adjunct professor of molecular, cellular, and developmental biology, yale, head of science & corporate communications, the max planck society, senior research associate, department of physics, california institute of technology, professor and v.p. for science, santa fe institute, managing director, providence equity partners, professor emeritus of organic chemistry, johannes kepler universität linz, austria, co-chairman, applied minds, chairman of the department of biological sciences, columbia university, professor and director, collective computation group, santa fe institute, pellegrino university professor in history of science and physics at harvard university, venture partner, easton capital investment group, managing partner, excellentia global partners, germeshausen professor of the history of science, mit, associate professor of astronomy, cornell university and the director of the carl sagan institute, the lg associate professor of media arts and sciences at mit and the director of the social computing group at the mit media lab, president, santa fe institute, founder and ceo of hypergiant, institute for advanced study, princeton university, artist, philosopher, and writer, powell m. cabot professor of american literature, harvard, private investor and producer. former chairman g.l. ohrstrom & co and the ohrstrom foundation, external professor and past president, santa fe institute, external professor, santa fe institute, director of astrobiology, columbia university, impact investor and managing partner of black point group, curator emeritus, american museum of natural history, distinguished professor and past president, santa fe institute, director of communications & engagement strategy, schmidt ocean institute, nautilus is a different kind of science magazine. our stories take you into the depths of science and spotlight its ripples in our lives and cultures., © 2022 nautilusthink inc, all rights reserved., subscribe to the nautilus print edition!][about us, nautilus staff, nautilus board of advisors, nautilus: science connected]about us - nautilus | science connected[][, , , channels, topics, about, contact us, anthropology, arts, astronomy, communication, economics, environment, evolution, general, genetics, geoscience, health, history, math, microbiology, neuroscience, paleontology, philosophy, physics, psychology, sociology, technology, zoology, , , subscribe, about, prime user, sponsorship, faqs, awards & press, contact, privacy policy, terms of service, rss, home, about us, contact, faq, prime, ebook, donate, awards and press, privacy policy, terms of service, rss, jobs, , ]