[biology + beyond, brain, cosmos, earth, ocean, quanta abstractions, science philanthropy alliance, spark of science, women in science & engineering, middle school filmmaker spotlights the plight of birds in his home state., history, inside america’s propaganda campaign, “atoms for peace,” launched in the wake of hiroshima., communication, redford center stories highest distinction film focuses on the financial side of fighting climate change., communication, eloise sent’s redford center stories film entry says that young people can change the world right now—so don’t wait., redford center stories highest distinction prizewinner highlights how small actions can have big impacts., redford center stories grand prize-winning film spotlights ways even a tiny ripple can change the narrative., middle schoolers annabelle vandermarck and piper lasater won the nautilus science prize in the redford center stories film contest., germany, 1865. a man, wealthy and powerful, gets into an argument with a colleague who calls him out for being the habitual liar that he is. enraged, he challenges his accuser to a duel. the challenger has a military background and is no stranger to weapons and dueling. the challenged, a meek physician scientist, has […], sant director, national museum of natural history, vice president for science education, howard hughes medical institute, gravitational-wave astrophysicist, caltech and nasa’s jet propulsion laboratory, director and leon levy professor, institute for advanced study, the elephant researcher tells her story., a marine biologist talks about the wonders of hidden lakes., director of the national science foundation, being a scientist can be like willingly entering into a roman gladiatorial contest. the hours are long, there’s a rank smell of indentured servitude, and at any minute your colleagues may attempt to eviscerate you for the pleasure of the crowds. a lot of the time we can look beyond these challenges because we have […], have you ever been at sea in a dense fog, when it seemed as if a tangible white darkness shut you in, and the great ship, tense and anxious, groped her way toward the shore with plummet and sounding-line, and you waited with beating heart for something to happen? if there’s a better description of […], nautilus is a different kind of science magazine. our stories take you into the depths of science and spotlight its ripples in our lives and cultures., © 2022 nautilusthink inc, all rights reserved., subscribe to the nautilus print edition!][bringing activism home to roost, “even little things” add up to justice, how to take back the power to change the world, film contest gives young environmental activists a voice, my personal hero: robert sapolsky on rudolf virchow, dr. kirk johnson, sean b. carroll, phd, dr. chiara m. f. mingarelli, dr. robbert dijkgraaf, joyce poole, lisa becking, france a. cordova, my personal hero: michael storrie-lombardi, my personal hero: helen keller, nautilus: science connected]spark of science archives - nautilus | science connected[][, , , channels, topics, about, contact us, anthropology, arts, astronomy, communication, economics, environment, evolution, general, genetics, geoscience, health, history, math, microbiology, neuroscience, paleontology, philosophy, physics, psychology, sociology, technology, zoology, , , subscribe, by mary ellen hannibal, history the disneyfication of atomic power inside america’s propaganda campaign, “atoms for peace,” launched in the wake of hiroshima. by jacob darwin hamblin october 2, 2021, by jacob darwin hamblin, october 2, 2021, communication youth activists push schools’ retirement fund to divest redford center stories highest distinction film focuses on the financial side of fighting climate change. by mary ellen hannibal june 25, 2021, by mary ellen hannibal, june 25, 2021, communication to the passionate youth: why wait? eloise sent’s redford center stories film entry says that young people can change the world right now—so don’t wait. by mary ellen hannibal june 11, 2021, by mary ellen hannibal, june 11, 2021, explore communication “even little things” add up to justice by mary ellen hannibal june 4, 2021 spark of science redford center stories highest distinction prizewinner highlights how small actions can have big impacts., communication, by mary ellen hannibal, june 4, 2021, spark of science, explore sociology how to take back the power to change the world by mary ellen hannibal may 28, 2021 spark of science redford center stories grand prize-winning film spotlights ways even a tiny ripple can change the narrative., sociology, by mary ellen hannibal, may 28, 2021, spark of science, explore arts film contest gives young environmental activists a voice by mary ellen hannibal may 21, 2021 spark of science middle schoolers annabelle vandermarck and piper lasater won the nautilus science prize in the redford center stories film contest., arts, by mary ellen hannibal, may 21, 2021, spark of science, explore neuroscience my personal hero: robert sapolsky on rudolf virchow by robert sapolsky january 26, 2017 spark of science germany, 1865. a man, wealthy and powerful, gets into an argument with a colleague who calls him out for being the habitual liar that he is. enraged, he challenges his accuser to a duel. the challenger has a military background and is no stranger to weapons and dueling. the challenged, a meek physician scientist, has […], neuroscience, by robert sapolsky, january 26, 2017, spark of science, explore paleontology dr. kirk johnson by john steele january 5, 2017 spark of science sant director, national museum of natural history, paleontology, by john steele, january 5, 2017, spark of science, explore zoology sean b. carroll, phd by john steele january 5, 2017 spark of science vice president for science education, howard hughes medical institute, zoology, by john steele, january 5, 2017, spark of science, explore astronomy dr. chiara m. f. mingarelli by michael segal january 5, 2017 spark of science gravitational-wave astrophysicist, caltech and nasa’s jet propulsion laboratory, astronomy, by michael segal, january 5, 2017, spark of science, explore physics dr. robbert dijkgraaf by michael segal january 5, 2017 spark of science director and leon levy professor, institute for advanced study, physics, by michael segal, january 5, 2017, spark of science, explore zoology joyce poole by carla rebai & joelle dahm january 5, 2017 spark of science the elephant researcher tells her story., zoology, by carla rebai & joelle dahm, january 5, 2017, spark of science, explore zoology lisa becking by lisa becking january 5, 2017 spark of science a marine biologist talks about the wonders of hidden lakes., zoology, by lisa becking, january 5, 2017, spark of science, explore physics france a. cordova by john steele january 5, 2017 spark of science director of the national science foundation, physics, by john steele, january 5, 2017, spark of science, explore astronomy my personal hero: michael storrie-lombardi by caleb scharf january 5, 2017 spark of science being a scientist can be like willingly entering into a roman gladiatorial contest. the hours are long, there’s a rank smell of indentured servitude, and at any minute your colleagues may attempt to eviscerate you for the pleasure of the crowds. a lot of the time we can look beyond these challenges because we have […], astronomy, by caleb scharf, january 5, 2017, spark of science, explore history my personal hero: helen keller by hope jahren january 3, 2017 spark of science have you ever been at sea in a dense fog, when it seemed as if a tangible white darkness shut you in, and the great ship, tense and anxious, groped her way toward the shore with plummet and sounding-line, and you waited with beating heart for something to happen? if there’s a better description of […], history, by hope jahren, january 3, 2017, spark of science, home, about us, contact, faq, prime, ebook, donate, awards and press, privacy policy, terms of service, rss, jobs, , ]