[, june 25th, find your reason and join us for ratpod 2022!, ratpod is a one-day, charity cycling ride which allows camp mak-a-dream to continue our mission of empowering cancer survivors and their families to live with and beyond their diagnosis.  in 2022 we are excited to offer three ways of participating in ratpod; our standard 127-mile route, a metric century 62-mile partial gravel ride, and a virtual option called ratpod unlimited!, ratpod takes place in dillon, mt with the remarkable scenic big hole valley of southwestern montana as your backdrop.  riders will encounter three wilderness mountain ranges, pristine rivers and where the valley is sparsely populated and therefore lightly traveled by automobile.  it is bicycle nirvana!, if you’re joining us in dillon, festivities for ratpod begin friday with event registration taking place from 3-6pm.  on saturday, the rides begin in front of the um western campus followed by post event fun on the grounds of the campus.  hear campers share their stories, listen to music, enjoy dinner & revel in your successful completion of ratpod., those of you joining us virtually, you’ll have a chance to ride ratpod, your way from where you live!  ride a bike, take a hike, go for a run, whatever your ratpod looks like is up to you!  you’ll have a chance to share photos of your personal ratpod journey, earn prizes for fundraising and more!, register for ratpod… click here., , ride support, saturday night bbq & festivities and some swag are all included in your registration fee., as the single largest camp mak-a-dream fundraiser of the year, by registering for ratpod, riders are also agreeing to raise a minimum of $100 in donations for the cause (separate from the registration fee).  following registration riders will receive directions on how to setup their personal fundraising pages which they can then share with their family and friends who can support them in their ratpod ride.  once you raise this $100, you will be eligible to receive a coveted ratpod t-shirt., you will also have the opportunity to either earn a jersey through your fundraising achievements ($500 raised will earn you a standard jersey and $1000 raised will earn you a yellow jersey) or purchase a standard jersey., looking to support a rider? search for them below (list reflects riders who have set up their fundraising page and is updated frequently):, , riders will also receive a personalized qr code for fundraising following registration., check out our current fundraising leaders!, , course options:, helpful information:, frequently asked questions- ratpod faqs, lodging – dillon lodging, volunteer:, ratpod would not be possible without the hundred of volunteers that join us each year.  from ham radio operates, motorcycle support to mechanics and food stop volunteers, there are many volunteer options.  fill out the volunteer form_2022 to sign up to volunteer today!, not on our mailing list?  please send a note to courtney and she will make sure you are added, courtney@campdream.org., ~ seamus, age 18, teen heads up conference, from the outside looking in summer may seem like our busy season, but camp mak-a-dream works its magic year-round. from special projects in preparation for our major fundraising events to hosting educational workshops at our gold creek campus, we stay busy regardless of the temperature outside. it just happens to be summertime that we especially look forward to., , δ, , children’s oncology camp foundation, d.b.a. camp mak-a-dream is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit registered in the us under ein: 81-0472959][ratpod, camp was an amazing way for me to not only make meaningful friendships strengthened by the common bond of cancer, but also to discover a part of myself that can relate to others in the memory of tragedy., calendar, apply for camp or volunteer]ratpod — camp mak-a-dream[minimum of $100 in donations, looking to support a rider?, check out our current fundraising leaders!, course options:, helpful information:, volunteer:, ~ seamus, age 18, teen heads up conference, getting here, missoula office, phone, fax, camp address, phone, sign up for our email newsletter, connect with us on][programs + explore all camps & programs kids camp siblings camp teen camp teen heads up conference young adult conference heads up conference adult retreats caregivers retreats family camp parents calendar, explore all camps & programs, kids camp, siblings camp, teen camp, teen heads up conference, young adult conference, heads up conference, adult retreats, caregivers retreats, family camp, parents, calendar, support + explore all ways to support donate volunteer our wish list 10 ways to support planned giving & major gifts seasonal staff foundations & corporate giving, explore all ways to support, donate, volunteer, our wish list, 10 ways to support, planned giving & major gifts, seasonal staff, foundations & corporate giving, events - all events calendar ratpod lip sync battle camp event kit open house & family fun day, all events, calendar, ratpod, lip sync battle, camp event kit, open house & family fun day, about + about us history & mission staff board of directors partners facility rental getting here contact us, about us, history & mission, staff, board of directors, partners, facility rental, getting here, contact us, $125 for the standard route, $85 for the 62-mile route, $25 for ratpod unlimited (a tax-deductible donation), 127-mile standard route standard route map and stops_2022, 65-mile metric century route 2022 partial gravel route we recommend riders have experience riding gravel.  the key is having durable tires that can roll over loose gravel and bumps. road bike – go with the widest tire your bike can accommodate. you’ll likely be fine with 28 mm, but a 30–35 mm tire with a strong sidewall is your best bet. check that your frame and fork have the clearance to accommodate a larger tire (some older frames cannot go wider than 30 mm). gravel bike/cross bike: we recommend durable 30–40 mm tires. non-knobbies will be ideal on the longer paved sections. mountain bike: a 1.4-2.0 inch tire (slick or knobs, depending on comfort) will be great for race day.to help you prepare for riding this route, here are a few tire suggestions: as with any endurance ride, it’s smart to carry 2 tubes, tire levers, and a pump or multiple co2 cartridges in your kit in case you catch a flat., 2022 partial gravel route, we recommend riders have experience riding gravel.  the key is having durable tires that can roll over loose gravel and bumps. road bike – go with the widest tire your bike can accommodate. you’ll likely be fine with 28 mm, but a 30–35 mm tire with a strong sidewall is your best bet. check that your frame and fork have the clearance to accommodate a larger tire (some older frames cannot go wider than 30 mm). gravel bike/cross bike: we recommend durable 30–40 mm tires. non-knobbies will be ideal on the longer paved sections. mountain bike: a 1.4-2.0 inch tire (slick or knobs, depending on comfort) will be great for race day.to help you prepare for riding this route, here are a few tire suggestions:, road bike – go with the widest tire your bike can accommodate. you’ll likely be fine with 28 mm, but a 30–35 mm tire with a strong sidewall is your best bet. check that your frame and fork have the clearance to accommodate a larger tire (some older frames cannot go wider than 30 mm)., gravel bike/cross bike: we recommend durable 30–40 mm tires. non-knobbies will be ideal on the longer paved sections., mountain bike: a 1.4-2.0 inch tire (slick or knobs, depending on comfort) will be great for race day.to help you prepare for riding this route, here are a few tire suggestions:, as with any endurance ride, it’s smart to carry 2 tubes, tire levers, and a pump or multiple co2 cartridges in your kit in case you catch a flat., optional strava kom-qom segments kom-qom strava timed segments, email*, name this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.]