[you're up to date no new alerts, new sky broadband gigafast, , available to 24% of uk homes. ​, superfast, , ultrafast, , gigafast, , recommended for, streaming and browsing in smaller households, streaming and gaming in uhd, future proof broadband for the busiest homes, average download speeds, mb/s, mb/s, mb/s, average upload speeds, mb/s, mb/s, mb/s, whatever your needs we have a package that’s right for you. check out what you get with our fibre broadband packages and sky broadband boost. add boost to your package for just £5 extra a month., get the speed we promised or money back., wifi in every room of your home or money back. ​ part of sky broadband boost., we check your broadband every day. if the connection to your home isn’t up to scratch, we'll send you a text to let you know we’re fixing it., sky broadband shield offers advanced protection with safe search included, to help make the internet a safer place for your whole family at no extra cost. ​, we’re rolling out game-changing speeds, 25x faster than our standard fibre​, with an average download speed of 900mb/s to the hub​, stream in uhd, game online in 4k and video call all at same time ​, full fibre is the uk’s most reliable broadband technology​, now, £55a month for 18 months, set up £19.95. prices may change during this period. available to 24% of uk homes. ​, switching is simple, remote switching is available in most cases without an engineer. our switch squad will keep you connected to your current provider right up until your switch., we'll confirm your new activation date when you select your broadband. and we'll pop your hub in the post., we'll contact your provider to cancel your contract for you., unplug your old hub and plug in your new one., our award-winning customer service has received gold in the 2022 choose broadband awards​, sky is the top performing broadband provider – ofcom complaints data q4 2021, superfast broadband, go faster with an average download speed of 59mb/s, a month for 18 months, set-up £19.95. prices may change during this period., ultrafast broadband, go lightning-fast with an average download speed of 145mb/s, a month for 18 months, set-up £19.95. prices may change during this period. available to 32% of uk homes., ultrafast plus broadband, game-changing speed with an average download speed of 500mb/s to the hub, a month for 18 months, set-up £19.95. prices may change during this period. available to 24% of uk homes. ​, gigafast, our fastest speed with an average download speed of 900mb/s to the hub​, a month for 18 months, set up £19.95. prices may change during this period. available to 24% of uk homes. ​, make it your own, start with sky tv & superfast broadband, then add more of what you love][, it's not just fast, it's gigafaaaaaast, , why sky?, speed guarantee, wifi guarantee, daily line checks, security built in​, go 25x faster with sky broadband gigafast​, game-changing speed, connect over 100 devices, ultra reliable full fibre broadband, sky broadband gigafast, ready, steady, go, don't just take our word for it, award-winning customer service​, uk's top performing provider, current deals, here's the legal bit]sky broadband - best superfast broadband & phone deals | sky.com[][skip to search, skip to alerts, skip to content, skip to footer, skip to the web assistant, watch cinema sports what to watch close watch menu, cinema, sports, what to watch, glass picture & sound sky inside tech specs switching to sky glass reviews close glass menu, picture & sound, sky inside, tech specs, switching to sky glass, reviews, sky q tv & broadband close sky q menu, tv & broadband, broadband tv & broadband broadband for business close broadband menu, tv & broadband, broadband for business, mobile phones tablets sim only brands accessories sim activation manage close mobile menu, phones, tablets, sim only, brands, accessories, sim activation, manage, business, deals, superfast £28a month for 18 months, ultrafast £35a month for 18 months, fastest gigafast £55a month for 18 months, streaming and browsing in smaller householdsthe superfast 35 package is super for streaming and browsing in smaller households, streaming and gaming in uhdwith the ultrafast package do more, on more devices. all at the same time., future proof broadband for the busiest homes900mbps average download speeds for the best experience for broadband hungry homes, mb/ssuperfast broadband - average of 59 mega bits per second download speed, mb/sultrafast broadband - average of up to 145 mega bits per second download speed, mb/sgigafast broadband - average of 900 mega bits per second download speed, mb/ssuperfast broadband - average of 16 mega bits per second upload speed, mb/sultrafast broadband - average of up to 27 mega bits per second upload speed, mb/sgigafast broadband - average of 90 mega bits per second upload speed, choose your sky broadband, choose your sky broadband, choose your sky broadband, privacy options, terms & conditions, privacy & cookies notice, accessibility, site map, contact us, complaints, sky group, store locator]