[you're up to date no new alerts, roll over your data for later., learn more, mix your data every month., learn more, sky tv customers can watch on the go without using data., learn more, upgrade your phone to a brand new one., learn more, unlimited calls and texts for everyone., learn more, * required information, you'll need to create a sky id to continue, it only takes a few minutes., if you have signed up for another sky online service, you already have a sky id., sky mobile rolls any data you have leftover at the end of the month into your sky piggybank. it’s yours to keep for 3 years to use when you need it most, or you can exchange it for a range of discounts on phones, tablets and accessories. mix your plan whenever you like, so you only pay for what you need. and enjoy unlimited streaming on all sky apps, like sky go, sky sports and more on the go, without using your data., sky mobile is an award-winning network with 99% network coverage. our plans start from just £6 a month and we have a great range of the latest phones and tablets, so there’s something for everyone., with sky mobile you have the flexibility to change your plan whenever you like and can use all sky apps without using your data. any data you don’t use is rolled into your sky piggybank at the end of each month. it’s yours to keep for 3 years. use it to top up your data allowance when you’re running low or cash it in for a range of discounts., you can apply to join sky mobile if you’re 18 or over and a resident in the uk. it’s open to everyone - with or without sky tv., choose your phone and a data plan that’s right for you. we’ll let you know when it’s time to upgrade., yes. no matter which sky mobile plan you choose, you can change your mix of data, calls and texts every month. any downgrades will be effective from the following month., it’s easy to get more data any time you like by mixing up your plan, adding data from your sky piggybank, or buying a 1gb add on. , 4g comes as standard and you’ll also get unlimited sky wifi at thousands of hotspots in popular places across the country. you can check your predicted network coverage in your area using our coverage checker., , with roaming passport, you can now roam in more than 30 eu and eea destinations at no extra cost. and with roaming passport plus, you can use your uk data plan from abroad, in 10 of the most popular roaming destinations outside of the eu., , while you're in the eu/eea:, , , outside of the eu:, , , if you need more data while you're away you’ll still be able to use data from your sky piggybank whenever you need it, and can mix up your plan at my sky., , if you travel abroad and have roaming activated, you won’t need to contact us or do anything. alternatively, you can simply turn data roaming off in your phone settings if you don’t want to use it., , for more information, see your roaming passport., all sky mobile customers can make calls and send texts to international numbers. you can find out about international charges in our tariff guide. after you’ve joined sky mobile, you can add our international saver to your plan and enjoy discounted rates on calls and texts to over 60 destinations. , , see our sky mobile features to find out more., discounted rates for calls and texts to over 60 popular international destinations (to both standard landline and mobile numbers). recurring optional extras stay on your account each month until cancelled. full details are available at sky.com/mobiletariffguide. , when you choose a plan, you’ll be able to add a phone with swap – have the device you want, when you want. see our sky mobile features to find out more., yes. if you’d like to keep your existing number, just have your pac to hand (which you can get from your old provider). you’ll need to activate your sky mobile sim before transferring your number. see our help guide for more information., yes. to use your sky mobile sim in a phone bought from a different service provider, you may need to contact them first to unlock your phone., yes. sky id is your sign-in for all our online services. you'll need a sky id to activate your sim when it arrives and to manage your account online. , your sim comes in three different sizes – nano, micro and standard. the size you’ll need will depend on your device. if you’re not sure, check its user guide. then pop out the right size sim for your device., when you log into my sky, you’ll see all your sky products in one place. however, you’ll be billed separately for sky mobile., if you're not eligible to buy a sky mobile device with a credit agreement, sky credit builder may help. sky credit builder lets you build up a payment history with sky mobile over six months, and this is taken into consideration if you re-apply to buy a device with a credit agreement., , see our sky credit builder help article for more information., it’s really easy to switch to sky mobile. all you need to do is:, 1. choose a data plan and we’ll send your sky mobile sim in the post. browse through our latest phones, 2. if you haven't already, text pac to 65075 to get your switching code within 60 seconds, 3. activate your new sky mobile sim and enter your pac, we’ll complete your switch to sky mobile within one working day, as long as you gave us your pac code before 5pm monday to friday., when you request a pac or stac, your current provider will let you know about any outstanding balances or charges that may apply (such as any early termination charges if you are in a minimum term)., you can also request this information without getting a switching code by texting info to 85075 to get all the information you need from your existing provider., once you’ve given us your pac or stac, we’ll complete your switch to sky mobile within one working day, provided you give it to us before 5pm monday to friday. otherwise it may take a little longer, particularly on bank holidays., your services with your existing provider will end on the same day as you used your pac or stac., whatever your contract length, swap your phone anytime after your first 31 days with sky mobile and upgrade to a brand new one from our great range. terms apply. see sky.com/swaphelp for more information., 1. sign in to your account and select the phone you want to upgrade from, 2. tell us about the condition of your current phone & choose a new one, 3. once you've got your new phone, send your old one back to us within 14 days, your phone is yours to keep and you don’t have to send it back to us. you can choose a brand new phone and keep your old one too. you’ll need to carry on paying for it and your new one until your contract ends., roll & mix: redeem data per 1gb, use within 3 years. mix: 12 month minimum term. downgrades effective month following selection. savings come from mixing down to a lower cost plan, reducing monthly costs. roll over unused data to supplement new, lower cost plan. roll & keep: redeem data per 1gb. use within 3 years. roll rewards: one reward per purchase. only available after end of first bill period. the more you save, the greater the total value of the rewards available to you.][sky mobile, explore a world of possibilities and switch to sky mobile, phones, from £9 a month, tablets, from £11 a month, plans, sim only from £6 a month, upgrade, swap your phone anytime, why choose sky mobile?, roll, mix, watch, swap, save, coverage checker, already got a sky sim?, activate your sim, enter your sky id, new to sky id, any questions?, what's different about sky mobile?, why choose sky mobile?, who can get sky mobile?, how does sky mobile work?, can i change my sky mobile plan?, what if i go over my data plan?, what will sky mobile coverage be like?, can i use my device abroad?, what if i need to call abroad from the uk?, can i get a phone with sky mobile?, can i keep my existing mobile number?, can i keep my existing phone?, do i need a sky id?, how do i get the right size sim?, will a new account be set up if i already have sky?, what if i'm not eligible to buy a sky mobile device?, how do i switch to sky mobile?, can i still join sky mobile if i’m in a contract with another provider?, how quickly will i be able to switch to sky mobile?, when can i upgrade?, how do i upgrade?, what if i want to keep my old phone?, general, safe, secure payments, fast, free delivery, simple activation, easy to keep your number]activation | sky mobile[pac, 65075, info, 85075, roll & mix, roll & keep, roll rewards][skip to search, skip to alerts, skip to content, skip to footer, skip to the web assistant, watch cinema sports what to watchclose watch menu, cinema, sports, what to watch, glass picture & sound sky inside tech specs switching to sky glass reviewsclose glass menu, picture & sound, sky inside, tech specs, switching to sky glass, reviews, sky q tv & broadbandclose sky q menu, tv & broadband, broadband tv & broadband broadband for businessclose broadband menu, tv & broadband, broadband for business, mobile phones tablets sim only brands accessories sim activation manageclose mobile menu, phones, tablets, sim only, brands, accessories, sim activation, manage, business, deals, why sky mobile?, how does it work?, how do i get it?, how do i switch to sky mobile?, how do i upgrade?, terms and conditions, any data used will come out of your uk data plan., if you have unlimited calls and texts, standard calls or texts to the uk or other eu destinations are inclusive., if you pay as you use, calls to the uk, or other eu destinations are 10p a minute. texts are 10p to send and free to receive., any data you use will be charged just £6 for 24 hours and will come out of your uk data plan. roaming passport plus lasts for 24 hours and you'll only be charged for each 24-hour period you use., calls and texts will be charged at out-of-bundle rates., destinations outside of the eu include: turkey, switzerland, australia, canada, hong kong, new zealand, south africa, thailand, usa and qatar., privacy options, terms & conditions, privacy & cookies notice, accessibility, site map, contact us, complaints, sky group, store locator]