[you're up to date no new alerts, exciting times. you’re about to make the move from sky q or sky+ to sky glass. before you get started, here’s everything you need to know., once you activate sky glass, your service will automatically switch over. which means your old sky equipment will stop working., got sky q? then keep hold of your main box, remotes and any mini boxes you’ve got, as you’ll need to send them back to us. we’ll be in touch within 31 days with some simple instructions and give you the packaging you need to post it all back., your billing starts when you activate sky glass. and when you’ve done that, your sky q or sky+ account will be automatically cancelled., want to change your payment date? no problem. you can do that as soon as you get your first sky glass bill. and any overpayments on your sky q or sky+ account will be automatically refunded within 45 days., and so you know, sky glass is billed separately to sky mobile and sky broadband. which is why you may have different payment dates for different services., tv lovers, rejoice. netflix comes as standard with sky glass. and if you have an existing account, there’s no need to contact netflix to cancel. you can link your existing netflix profile to your sky account in a few simple steps. easy., there are over 140 channels on sky glass, with more coming soon. better still, every channel comes in stunning hd. as standard., when you move across to sky glass, a handful of recordings from your old sky+ or sky q box might not be available on your new tv., but the good news is, with your new playlist feature, you‘ll be able to create a shortlist to all your favourite episodes quickly and easily., you don’t need to lift a finger to move your sky store movies over to your sky glass tv. just say “hello sky, open sky store”, or look in the playlist section for the sky store button. here you’ll find a library with all your buy & keep movies. as well as any new sky store movies you rent or buy in the future., with the whole home pack, you can watch sky tv in any room., all you need to do is plug a sky stream puck into any tv you’ve got. just like you would with a minibox on sky q., a quick heads-up that unlike your minibox, your sky stream puck isn’t a wifi hotspot. so, you may need a wifi booster for the best experience.][switching to sky glass is easy peasy, about your sky kit, about your bill, netflix. is. in., more channels. more entertainment., sky+ and sky q recordings, rent, buy & keep with sky store, multi-room with sky glass, education videos, learn more about using sky glass]sky glass. tv with built-in sky. no fuss just plug in and play | sky.com[][skip to search, skip to alerts, skip to content, skip to footer, skip to the web assistant, watch cinema sports what to watch close watch menu, cinema, sports, what to watch, glass picture & sound sky inside tech specs switching to sky glass reviews close glass menu, picture & sound, sky inside, tech specs, switching to sky glass, reviews, sky q tv & broadband close sky q menu, tv & broadband, broadband tv & broadband broadband for business close broadband menu, tv & broadband, broadband for business, mobile phones tablets sim only brands accessories sim activation manage close mobile menu, phones, tablets, sim only, brands, accessories, sim activation, manage, business, deals, privacy options, terms & conditions, privacy & cookies notice, accessibility, site map, contact us, complaints, sky group, store locator]