[your digital movie activation code can be found in qualifying dvd, blu-ray and uhd cases. the digital movie code is the same code as the disney movie insiders code., if your digital movie code was missing, lost, or blank, please submit an email via our contact us page. when contacting us, please be sure to include the following information:, - movie title and 6-digit stock number listed on the base of the spine of your dvd or blu-ray package. this number will start with either a 0 or a 1., if you receive a "this is not a valid code" error message when you try to enter your code at redeemdigitalmovie.com, please try the following troubleshooting tips:, - verify your purchase includes a digital code. please see the insert for further details., - verify your digital code is eligible on redeemdigitalmovie.com. check the text printed on the outer edge of one of the movie discs or on the bottom of the combination packaging from which you obtained your digital code. if you see the words "distributed by buena vista home entertainment" in these locations, the digital code included in your combination package is redeemable on redeemdigitalmovie.com., - verify you are entering the correct characters; some letters and numbers look similar and use of incorrect characters may be causing the error message. for example, b vs. 8, s vs. 5, 0 vs. o, i vs. 1 and w vs. vv., if you have confirmed that the digital code enclosed in your combination product packaging is entered correctly but you still receive an error message, please submit an email via our contact us page to request a new code., for many titles, a digital copy disc is no longer necessary. you now have the flexibility to enter your code from most connected devices and enjoy your movie at home or anywhere you go!][how can we help? please select a category or browse by topic, top support topics, more ways to enjoy disney movies]the walt disney studios technical support and help center[menu, how can we help?, top support topics, contact us, contact us, contact us, official blu-ray website, select player manufacturer for latest firmware updates:, dell drivers & downloads, hp support & drivers, insignia, integra, jvc, lg electronics support, magnavox, marantz, memorex, nad, onkyo, oppo, panasonic bd product support, philips consumer support, pioneer blu-ray & dvd support, samsung download center, sharp firmware update, sherwood, sony electronics support & registration, sony ps3 system software update, vizio, yamaha, player issues, contact us][redeem digital movie support, disney blu-ray and dvd support]