[we’re glad you’re interested in coming to camp mak-a-dream. since camp is a cost-free experience, you only need to find a way to get to missoula, montana, where our staff greets participants upon arrival at the missoula airport and provides transportation to camp mak-a-dream’s facility located 65 miles east., facility address: 727 camp mak-a-dream road gold creek, montana 59733 phone: 406.288.3030 fax: 406.288.3033, where is missoula, montana?, remote as it may sound, this bustling college town is actually quite accessible. its international airport — mso — has direct, daily connections from a variety of major airports via united, delta, american, horizon/alaska air and allegiant airlines. since travel to montana can be somewhat limited and/or expensive, we suggest campers book their flights soon after their acceptance notices and the confirmation packets have been received., driving directions, from interstate 90, when you arrive at gold creek take exit 166 and head south across the clark fork river. continue approximately half a mile until you see the small white church on your right. turn right at the church, pass under the 6c ranches sign, then turn left and drive up the hill, passing under the camp mak-a-dream sign., at the top of the hill you will see our parking lot on your left. please park vehicles in the parking lot and walk across the wooden foot bridge where you will find the main lodge and all other buildings., travel scholarships, we offer a limited number of full and partial scholarships for eligible first-time participants to help with the cost of travel. learn more and download an application by visiting the apply page of this website, or calling us at 406.549.5987. completed scholarship application forms must be submitted at least 30 days prior to participants’ anticipated travel date(s).,  , ~ robert, volunteer, from the outside looking in summer may seem like our busy season, but camp mak-a-dream works its magic year-round. from special projects in preparation for our major fundraising events to hosting educational workshops at our gold creek campus, we stay busy regardless of the temperature outside. it just happens to be summertime that we especially look forward to., , δ, , children’s oncology camp foundation, d.b.a. camp mak-a-dream is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit registered in the us under ein: 81-0472959][getting here, i feel like i had a connection to everyone, they're genuinely nice ... [camp] is not like anywhere else., calendar, apply for camp or volunteer]getting here — camp mak-a-dream[facility address:, where is missoula, montana?, driving directions, travel scholarships, ~ robert, volunteer, getting here, missoula office, phone, fax, camp address, phone, sign up for our email newsletter, connect with us on][programs + explore all camps & programs kids camp siblings camp teen camp teen heads up conference young adult conference heads up conference adult retreats caregivers retreats family camp parents calendar, explore all camps & programs, kids camp, siblings camp, teen camp, teen heads up conference, young adult conference, heads up conference, adult retreats, caregivers retreats, family camp, parents, calendar, support + explore all ways to support donate volunteer our wish list 10 ways to support planned giving & major gifts seasonal staff foundations & corporate giving, explore all ways to support, donate, volunteer, our wish list, 10 ways to support, planned giving & major gifts, seasonal staff, foundations & corporate giving, events + all events calendar ratpod lip sync battle camp event kit open house & family fun day, all events, calendar, ratpod, lip sync battle, camp event kit, open house & family fun day, about - about us history & mission staff board of directors partners facility rental getting here contact us, about us, history & mission, staff, board of directors, partners, facility rental, getting here, contact us, email*, comments this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.]