[sky accessibility, we're committed to ensuring that all our products and services are fully inclusive and easy for everyone to use. so, if you or someone you know has a disability, or might just benefit from some additional support or custom features, take a look at what we have to offer., wild animal babies, we want you to get the most from sky so we offer a number of services for our customers with accessibility requirements, like alternative billing formats including braille, large print and audio cd. we have other ways of contacting us too, like british sign language via an interpreter or text phone. and we’re trained to support power of attorney accounts. we also offer a messaging service. please let us know if you need any extra assistance or would like to register your account with us., we work with people and organisations who keep us learning and improving. for example, the royal national institute for the blind share their expertise on our sky box display, our apps and websites. action on hearing loss supported us when we launched subtitles on demand, helping us test our service with people affected by hearing loss. and dementia friends trained us to make sure we offer the best support to people affected by dementia., the blacklist, series 9 episode 1  sky max, new & exclusive. the skinner: two years after the shocking finale of season eight, red's whereabouts are unknown while the task force is disbanded. but big changes are coming. (s9, ep 1), audio description by neville ware, , , , ghostbusters: afterlife, sky cinema premiere 13th may 9:50am, audio description & subtitles , two kids discover their connection to the original ghostbusters and their grandfather's legacy. paul rudd stars. (2021)(124 mins), audio description by kenneth blair, euphoria, series 1, subtitles, zendaya stars as drug-addicted 17-year-old rue in this no-holds-barred look at teenage life. buzzy drama from sam levinson. strong language/violence/sex/mature themes/flashing images., , , ][sky accessibility, visual impairment, hearing impairment, cognitive impairment, physical impairment, find out more, register for our services, register for our services, collaborations, collaborations, news, sign up to our new sky befriending line, sky q now gives more control to visually impaired customers, how we subtitled the 94th academy awards - and that moment!, tv highlights, the blacklist series 9 episode 1, ghostbusters: afterlife, euphoria series 1]sky accessibility homepage | sky accessibility[, the blacklist, series 9 episode 1 , , , sky max, 11th may, 11th may, 11th may, 9pm, , audio description & subtitles, , new & exclusive. the skinner: two years after the shocking finale of season eight, red's whereabouts are unknown while the task force is disbanded. but big changes are coming. (s9, ep 1), , audio description by neville ware, , , ghostbusters: afterlife, sky cinema premiere, 3th may,  9, :50am, audio description & subtitles , two kids discover their connection to the original ghostbusters and their grandfather's legacy. paul rudd stars. (2021)(124 mins), , , audio , descripti, on b, y kenneth blair, , , euphoria, series 1, subtitles, , , zendaya stars as drug-addicted 17-year-old rue in this no-holds-barred look at teenage life. buzzy drama from sam levinson. strong language/violence/sex/mature themes/flashing images., , , , available until 29/03/22][toggle menu, sky, skip to content, home, what's on tv, tv highlights, low vision features, news, befriending, help, contact, , see tv guide for audio described shows, see tv guide for subtitled shows, see tv guide for audio described shows, see tv guide for subtitled shows, see tv guide for audio described shows, see tv guide for subtitled shows, terms & conditions, privacy & cookies, modern slavery, accessibility statement, sky group]