[vampire bats (one pictured) have evolved to survive on a blood-only diet. the loss of 13 specific genes may have helped them develop this unique ability., sherri and brock fenton, by richard kemeny, april 28, 2022 at 6:30 am, surviving on blood alone is no picnic. vampire bats are the only mammal known to feed exclusively on the stuff. they may have gained this ability by losing some genes, researchers now report., vampire bats have developed special feeding behaviors to drink their meals. their bodies, too, have evolved to thrive on a blood-only diet. but scientists didn’t know what changes in the bats’ dna might explain these bodily adaptations., michael hiller studies how an animal’s genome — its full set of genes — drives behavior and other traits. he runs a lab at the senckenberg society for nature research in frankfurt, germany. hiller is part of a team that pieced together the genome of the common vampire bat (desmodus rotundus). the researchers compared it with the genomes of 26 other bat species, including six from the same family as vampire bats. the team then searched for genes that were now missing or inactive in d. rotundus., “sometimes losing genes in evolutionary time frames can actually be adaptive or beneficial,” hiller says., the team found 13 genes that were active in other bats but not vampires. in the blood-diners, these genes had changes — mutations — that messed up their instructions. it turned off those genes. over time, these changes may have led to vampire bats’ unique lifestyle. hiller’s team shared its new findings march 25 in science advances., three of the genes were already known to be missing in vampire bats. these genes are linked to sweet and bitter taste receptors in other animals. without them, vampire bats likely can’t taste as well — all the better for drinking blood., loss of another 10 genes showed up for the first time in this study. the researchers looked at what these genes do in other animals to get ideas about how losing them might support a blood-rich diet., many of the genes play roles in digestion. some help boost levels of insulin in the body. this hormone helps the body process sugar from food. but blood doesn’t contain much sugar. if vampire bats have little need for insulin, these genes probably weren’t that useful anymore. another gene is linked in other mammals to making the stomach acid that breaks down solid food. that gene may have been lost as the vampire bat’s stomach evolved to handle mostly fluid., yet another lost gene controls iron absorption in the gut. for most animals, eating too much iron can be toxic. when active, this gene blocks cells in the gut from taking in too much iron. blood is rich in iron but low in calories, so vampire bats need plenty of it. they must drink up to 1.4 times their own weight during each feed. in the process, they consume a potentially harmful amount of iron., the researchers now think that losing this gene may help the bats get rid of that extra iron. the gut of vampire bats sheds cells frequently. without the active gene, these cells may be able to take in huge amounts of iron — then quickly excrete it. that might allow them to avoid an iron overload. this idea is also supported by an earlier study. it found cells full of iron in vampire-bat poop., weekly updates to help you use science news for students in the learning environment, thank you for signing up!, there was a problem signing you up., one more lost gene may support vampire bats’ social behaviors. in other animals, one role of this gene is to break down a compound produced by nerve cells — one that is important for learning and memory. vampire bats lead complex social lives that rely on strong memory. and because their bodies don’t store much sugar, vampire bats are susceptible to starvation. their friends may sometimes help out by sharing regurgitated blood. and they’re more likely to share with bats that previously shared with them. vampire bats also form long-term bonds and even feed with their friends in the wild. so loss of this gene could help support their socializing., “i think there are some compelling hypotheses there,” says david liberles. he works at temple university in philadelphia. there he studies how genomes evolve. liberles didn’t work on this study, but does note that there are two other species of vampire bats. both feed more on the blood of birds. d. rotundus, in contrast, prefers to drink from mammals. it would be interesting to see if the same genes were also lost in other vampire bats, he says., whether dining on blood caused these changes — or the other way round — isn’t known. either way, those changes likely occurred gradually over millions of years, hiller says. “maybe they started drinking more and more blood, and then you have time to better adapt to this very challenging diet.”, adaptation: (in biology) the development of new programs, processes, policies and structures to make communities and their inhabitants better able to head off — or at least withstand — the dangerous impacts of a warming climate. those impacts may include drought, flooding, wildfires, extreme heat and extreme storms., bat: a type of winged mammal comprising more than 1,100 separate species — or one in every four known species of mammal. (in sports) the usually wooden piece of athletic equipment that a player uses to forcefully swat at a ball. (v.) or the act of swinging a machine-tooled stick or flat bat with hopes of hitting a ball., behavior: the way something, often a person or other organism, acts towards others, or conducts itself., birds: warm-blooded animals with wings that first showed up during the time of the dinosaurs. birds are jacketed in feathers and produce young from the eggs they deposit in some sort of nest. most birds fly, but throughout history there have been the occasional species that don’t., calorie: the amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water by 1 degree celsius. it is typically used as a measurement of the energy contained in some defined amount of food. the exception: when referring to the energy in food, the convention is to call a kilocalorie, or 1,000 of these calories, a "calorie." here, a food calorie is the amount of energy needed to raise 1 kilogram of water 1 degree c., cell: (in biology) the smallest structural and functional unit of an organism. typically too small to see with the unaided eye, it consists of a watery fluid surrounded by a membrane or wall. depending on their size, animals are made of anywhere from thousands to trillions of cells., compound: (often used as a synonym for chemical) a compound is a substance formed when two or more chemical elements unite (bond) in fixed proportions. for example, water is a compound made of two hydrogen atoms bonded to one oxygen atom. its chemical symbol is h2o., diet: (n.) the foods and liquids ingested by an animal to provide the nutrition it needs to grow and maintain health. sometimes this is a specific food-intake plan. (v.) to adopt a specific food-intake plan., dna: (short for deoxyribonucleic acid) a long, double-stranded and spiral-shaped molecule inside most living cells that carries genetic instructions. it is built on a backbone of phosphorus, oxygen, and carbon atoms. in all living things, from plants and animals to microbes, these instructions tell cells which molecules to make., evolve: (adj. evolutionary) to change gradually over generations, or a long period of time. in living organisms, such an evolution usually involves random changes to genes that will then be passed along to an individual’s offspring. these can lead to new traits, such as altered coloration, new susceptibility to disease or protection from it, or different shaped features (such as legs, antennae, toes or internal organs). nonliving things may also be described as evolving if they change over time. for instance, the miniaturization of computers is sometimes described as these devices evolving to smaller, more complex devices., excrete: to remove waste products from the body, such as in the urine., family: a taxonomic group consisting of at least one genus of organisms., gene: (adj. genetic) a segment of dna that codes, or holds instructions, for a cell’s production of a protein. offspring inherit genes from their parents. genes influence how an organism looks and behaves., genome: the complete set of genes or genetic material in a cell or an organism. the study of this genetic inheritance housed within cells is known as genomics., gut: an informal term for the gastrointestinal tract, especially the intestines., hormone: (in zoology and medicine) a chemical produced in a gland and then carried in the bloodstream to another part of the body. hormones control many important body activities, such as growth. hormones act by triggering or regulating chemical reactions in the body. (in botany) a chemical that serves as a signaling compound that tells cells of a plant when and how to develop, or when to grow old and die., insulin: a hormone produced in the pancreas (an organ that is part of the digestive system) that helps the body use glucose as fuel., iron: a metallic element that is common within minerals in earth’s crust and in its hot core. this metal also is found in cosmic dust and in many meteorites., mammal: a warm-blooded animal distinguished by the possession of hair or fur, the secretion of milk by females for feeding their young, and (typically) the bearing of live young., mutation: (v. mutate) some change that occurs to a gene in an organism’s dna. some mutations occur naturally. others can be triggered by outside factors, such as pollution, radiation, medicines or something in the diet. a gene with this change is referred to as a mutant., receptor: (in biology) a molecule in cells that serves as a docking station for another molecule. that second molecule can turn on some special activity by the cell., social: (adj.) relating to gatherings of people; a term for animals (or people) that prefer to exist in groups. (noun) a gathering of people, for instance those who belong to a club or other organization, for the purpose of enjoying each other’s company., species: a group of similar organisms capable of producing offspring that can survive and reproduce., strategy: a thoughtful and clever plan for achieving some difficult or challenging goal., taste: one of the basic properties the body uses to sense its environment, especially foods, using receptors (taste buds) on the tongue (and some other organs)., toxic: poisonous or able to harm or kill cells, tissues or whole organisms. the measure of risk posed by such a poison is its toxicity., trait: a characteristic feature of something. (in genetics) a quality or characteristic that can be inherited., unique: something that is unlike anything else; the only one of its kind., journal: m. blumer et al. gene losses in the common vampire bat illuminate molecular adaptations to blood feeding. science advances. vol. 8, march 25, 2022. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.abm6494. , journal: w. hong and h. zhao. vampire bats exhibit evolutionary reduction of bitter taste receptor genes common to other bats. proceedings of the royal society b. vol. 281, august 7, 2014. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2014.1079., free educator resources are available for this article. register to access:, already registered? enter your e-mail address above., readability score: 6.6, founded in 2003, science news for students is a free, award-winning online publication dedicated to providing age-appropriate science news to learners, parents and educators. the publication, as well as science news magazine, are published by the society for science, a nonprofit 501(c)(3) membership organization dedicated to public engagement in scientific research and education., © society for science & the public 2000–2022. all rights reserved.][science news for students, science news for students, like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers, smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’, losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood, like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers, prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence, five tips to consider when dating goes wrong, scientists say: atmosphere, night lights make even the seas bright, ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds, explainer: all about orbits, scientists say: atmosphere, scientists say: constellation, smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’, this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air, this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them, losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood, no other mammal can exist on a blood-only diet, share this:, educators and parents, sign up for the cheat sheet, power words, citations, classroom resources for this article, related stories, bloodthirsty vampire bats prefer drinking with friends, vampires’ gift of ‘blood honey’, here’s what bats ‘see’ when they explore the world with sound, more stories from science news for students on animals, like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers, smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’, infected caterpillars become zombies that climb to their deaths, scientists say: migration, the scent of queen ‘murder hornets’ can lure males into traps, surprise! sixteen tiny wasp species found masquerading as one, one of the earliest meat-eating mammals was saber-toothed, mosquitoes see red, which may be why they find us so appealing, science news for students, more information, society for science]losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood | science news for students[adaptation, bat, behavior, birds, calorie, cell, compound, diet, dna, evolve, evolutionary, excrete, family, gene, genome, gut, hormone, insulin, iron, mammal, mutation, receptor, social, species, strategy, taste, toxic, trait, unique, journal:, journal:][all topics life humans earth space tech, life, humans, earth, space, tech, science news, explore all stories collections explainers word of the week experiments cool jobs analyze this technically fiction invention & innovation climate change chronicles classroom questions, all stories, collections, explainers, word of the week, experiments, cool jobs, analyze this, technically fiction, invention & innovation, climate change chronicles, classroom questions, about us, education resources, donate, all topics earth environment climate oceans agriculture humans health & medicine psychology archaeology life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics physics materials science space planets tech computing chemistry math science & society all topics, earth environment climate oceans agriculture, environment, climate, oceans, agriculture, humans health & medicine psychology archaeology, health & medicine, psychology, archaeology, life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics, animals, brain, plants, fossils, ecosystems, microbes, genetics, physics materials science, materials science, space planets, planets, tech computing, computing, chemistry, math, science & society, life life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics, animals, brain, plants, fossils, ecosystems, microbes, genetics, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022, animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, humans humans health & medicine psychology archaeology health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022 psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, humans health & medicine psychology archaeology, health & medicine, psychology, archaeology, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022 psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago, psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, earth earth environment climate oceans agriculture earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022 environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, earth environment climate oceans agriculture, environment, climate, oceans, agriculture, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022 environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022, oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022, environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, space space planets space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022 earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, space planets, planets, space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022 earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022, space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, tech tech computing tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022 materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, tech computing, computing, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022 materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022, tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022, materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, email, facebook, twitter, pinterest, reddit, google classroom, print, power words, animals bloodthirsty vampire bats prefer drinking with friends by jonathan lambertoctober 29, 2021, animals vampires’ gift of ‘blood honey’ by susan miliusoctober 27, 2013, animals here’s what bats ‘see’ when they explore the world with sound by carolyn wilkeoctober 29, 2020, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022, animals infected caterpillars become zombies that climb to their deaths by jake buehlerapril 22, 2022, animals scientists say: migration by maria temmingapril 18, 2022, animals the scent of queen ‘murder hornets’ can lure males into traps by erin garcia de jesúsapril 15, 2022, animals surprise! sixteen tiny wasp species found masquerading as one by lindsey konkel neaboreapril 8, 2022, fossils one of the earliest meat-eating mammals was saber-toothed by sofia quagliaapril 7, 2022, animals mosquitoes see red, which may be why they find us so appealing by laura allenapril 1, 2022, science news, science news in high schools, using science news for students in the classroom, rights & permissions, newsletter, follow science news on facebook, follow science news on twitter, follow science news via rss, about the society, donate, careers]