[one of the most famous constellations in the northern sky depicts the hunter orion (illustrated)., manpuku7/getty images, by maria temming, april 25, 2022 at 6:30 am, a constellation is a group or cluster of related things. the best known examples are the groups of stars that seemingly form patterns in the night sky. those stars may not be close together in space. some may be much farther from earth than others. but if lines were drawn between those stars on the sky like a connect-the-dots puzzle, they would create a shape., constellations appear to slowly change position — through the night and throughout the year. that’s not because the stars are moving around. it’s because of the earth’s motion, relative to those stars., for one thing, earth rotates, or spins, on an axis. this motion explains why the sun rises and sets. it also causes stars and their constellations to appear to move across the sky over the course of a night., what’s more, earth orbits, or circles around, the sun. as it does, the region of space seen from earth at night — when an observer is facing away from the sun — changes. this is why different constellations appear at predictable times throughout the year. orion the hunter, for instance, is seen in the northern sky in winter. scorpius the scorpion appears in the summer., our view of the sky also depends on our location. people in the northern and southern hemispheres look out from earth in different directions. so, they see different sets of constellations., many constellations were named long ago after mythical people, creatures and objects. today, astronomers officially recognize 88 constellations. over half were named in ancient greece. those constellations, in turn, drew from earlier cultures in babylon, egypt and assyria. astronomers from europe later named other constellations., to modern astronomers, constellations are not just pictures in the sky. scientists have drawn boundaries around each of the 88 official constellations. those boundary edges meet, dividing the sky into a puzzle with 88 pieces. any star within a boundary counts as part of that constellation — even if it doesn’t make up the recognizable pattern. many stars and other objects are named for the constellations in which they appear., the constellations do not just provide a way to describe where objects are in space. throughout history, sailors have used these landmarks in the sky to navigate the seas. and today, robotic spacecraft use star maps to chart their course through space.  , the brightness and spacing of stars help explain why some groups form the recognizable patterns of constellations and others don’t., check out the full list of scientists say., weekly updates to help you use science news for students in the learning environment, thank you for signing up!, there was a problem signing you up., astronomer: a scientist who works in the field of research that deals with celestial objects, space and the physical universe., constellation: patterns formed by prominent stars that appear to lie close to each other in the night sky. modern astronomers divide the sky into 88 constellations, 12 of which (known as the zodiac) lie along the sun’s path through the sky over the course of a year. cancri, the original greek name for the constellation cancer, is one of those 12 zodiac constellations., culture: (n. in social science) the sum total of typical behaviors and social practices of a related group of people (such as a tribe or nation). their culture includes their beliefs, values and the symbols that they accept and/or use. culture is passed on from generation to generation through learning. scientists once thought culture to be exclusive to humans. now they recognize some other animals show signs of culture as well, including dolphins and primates., meteor: (adj. meteoritic) a lump of rock or metal from space that hits the atmosphere of earth. in space it is known as a meteoroid. when you see it in the sky it is a meteor. and when it hits the ground, it is called a meteorite., navigate: to find one’s way through a landscape using visual cues, sensory information (like scents), magnetic information (like an internal compass) or other techniques., orbit: the curved path of a celestial object or spacecraft around a galaxy, star, planet or moon. one complete circuit around a celestial body., sea: an ocean (or region that is part of an ocean). unlike lakes and streams, seawater — or ocean water — is salty., star: the basic building block from which galaxies are made. stars develop when gravity compacts clouds of gas. when they become hot enough, stars will emit light and sometimes other forms of electromagnetic radiation. the sun is our closest star., sun: the star at the center of earth’s solar system. it is about 27,000 light-years from the center of the milky way galaxy. also a term for any sunlike star., maria temming is the assistant editor at science news for students. she has bachelor's degrees in physics and english, and a master's in science writing., free educator resources are available for this article. register to access:, already registered? enter your e-mail address above., readability score: 7, founded in 2003, science news for students is a free, award-winning online publication dedicated to providing age-appropriate science news to learners, parents and educators. the publication, as well as science news magazine, are published by the society for science, a nonprofit 501(c)(3) membership organization dedicated to public engagement in scientific research and education., © society for science & the public 2000–2022. all rights reserved.][science news for students, science news for students, like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers, smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’, losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood, like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers, prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence, five tips to consider when dating goes wrong, scientists say: atmosphere, night lights make even the seas bright, ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds, explainer: all about orbits, scientists say: atmosphere, scientists say: constellation, smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’, this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air, this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them, scientists say: constellation, this is a cluster of things, such as a group of stars that seemingly forms a pattern in the night sky, share this:, educators and parents, sign up for the cheat sheet, power words, about maria temming, classroom resources for this article, related stories, scientists say: your weekly word, picture this: smiley face in space!, sun sibling spotted, more stories from science news for students on space, explainer: all about orbits, scientists say: atmosphere, mercury’s surface may be studded with diamonds, let’s learn about pluto, space trash could kill satellites, space stations — and astronauts, scientists say: dark energy, wild art? no, it’s a radio image of the heart of our milky way, no, organic molecules alone don’t point to life on mars, science news for students, more information, society for science]scientists say: constellation | science news for students[constellation, astronomer, constellation, culture, meteor, navigate, orbit, sea, star, sun][all topics life humans earth space tech, life, humans, earth, space, tech, science news, explore all stories collections explainers word of the week experiments cool jobs analyze this technically fiction invention & innovation climate change chronicles classroom questions, all stories, collections, explainers, word of the week, experiments, cool jobs, analyze this, technically fiction, invention & innovation, climate change chronicles, classroom questions, about us, education resources, donate, all topics earth environment climate oceans agriculture humans health & medicine psychology archaeology life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics physics materials science space planets tech computing chemistry math science & society all topics, earth environment climate oceans agriculture, environment, climate, oceans, agriculture, humans health & medicine psychology archaeology, health & medicine, psychology, archaeology, life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics, animals, brain, plants, fossils, ecosystems, microbes, genetics, physics materials science, materials science, space planets, planets, tech computing, computing, chemistry, math, science & society, life life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics, animals, brain, plants, fossils, ecosystems, microbes, genetics, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022, animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, humans humans health & medicine psychology archaeology health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022 psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, humans health & medicine psychology archaeology, health & medicine, psychology, archaeology, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022 psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago, psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, earth earth environment climate oceans agriculture earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022 environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, earth environment climate oceans agriculture, environment, climate, oceans, agriculture, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022 environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022, oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022, environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, space space planets space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022 earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, space planets, planets, space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022 earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022, space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, tech tech computing tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022 materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, tech computing, computing, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022 materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022, tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022, materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, email, facebook, twitter, pinterest, reddit, google classroom, print, e-mail, twitter, power words, scientists say: your weekly word by bethany brookshireaugust 21, 2015, space picture this: smiley face in space! by janet ralofffebruary 9, 2015, space sun sibling spotted by stephen ornesjune 5, 2014, space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022, planets mercury’s surface may be studded with diamonds by nikk ogasaapril 20, 2022, planets let’s learn about pluto by maria temmingapril 12, 2022, space space trash could kill satellites, space stations — and astronauts by stephen ornesmarch 3, 2022, physics scientists say: dark energy by maria temmingfebruary 28, 2022, space wild art? no, it’s a radio image of the heart of our milky way by lisa grossmanfebruary 14, 2022, planets no, organic molecules alone don’t point to life on mars by nikk ogasafebruary 9, 2022, science news, science news in high schools, using science news for students in the classroom, rights & permissions, newsletter, follow science news on facebook, follow science news on twitter, follow science news via rss, about the society, donate, careers]