[copyright © 1996-2015 national geographic societycopyright © 2015-2022 national geographic partners, llc. all rights reserved][][list of sections:, user eligibility and registration, subscription terms:, copyright license grant and restrictions:, use and sharing of certain information:, suspension and termination:, national geographic magazine subscriptions (print/digital) contact information:, mail to:, phone:, online customer service: www.ngmservice.com, national geographic history subscriptions contact information:, mail to:, phone:, online customer service: www.nghservice.com, additional provisions:][, , renew, subscribe, menu, user eligibility and registration, subscription terms, copyright license grant and restrictions, use and sharing of certain information, suspension and termination, national geographic magazine subscriptions contact information, additional provisions, user eligibility and registration, eligibility. you must be a uk resident at least 18 years old to purchase the national geographic subscription services. individuals under the age of 16 are not eligible for a national geographic account and are not permitted to provide personal information to national geographic., registration. you must provide accurate, current and complete information during the registration process and keep your account information up-to-date. in particular, you are responsible for notifying us of a change in mailing address to receive delivery of your print subscription. you are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality and security of your username and password and for all activities that occur on or through your national geographic account. however, if you allow others to access your account, this agreement, as well as any specific consents you may have provided also applies to their access, uses, and disclosure of information. you agree to immediately notify national geographic of any unauthorised access to your account. national geographic will not be responsible for any losses arising from the unauthorised use of your account, except where such unauthorised use is due to an act or omission by national geographic., electronic form/communications. by registering for an account and/or accessing the national geographic subscription services you consent to having this agreement provided to you in electronic form and receiving communications relating to the national geographic subscription services from us electronically. we may communicate with you by postal mail, e-mail or by posting notices on the national geographic website. you agree that all agreements, notices, disclosures, and other communications we provide to you electronically satisfy any legal requirements that such communications be in writing, including renewal notices and notices about your subscription or account., subscription terms:, subscription and auto-renewal. your subscription to national geographic magazine services may include enrollment in an ongoing/recurring payment plan. if applicable, your subscription(s) will automatically renew at the end of the disclosed billing period, unless cancelled in accordance with the instructions for cancellation below. payment will be charged to your chosen payment method at confirmation of purchase (or following any free trial period, if applicable) and at the start of every new billing period, unless cancelled., price changes. we reserve the right to change our pricing. in the event of a price change, we will notify you thirty (30) days in advance of the change by sending a notice by email or by post to the email or street address you have registered for your account. if you do not wish to accept a price change, you may cancel your subscription in accordance with the instructions included in that notice or as specified below. if you do not cancel your subscription after the price change takes effect and prior to the start of your new subscription period (i.e., your next billing date), your subscription will be renewed at the price in effect at the time of the renewal, without any additional action by you, and you authorise us to charge your payment method for these amounts. we will not be able to notify you of any changes in applicable taxes. you are responsible for all third party internet access charges in connection with your use of the national geographic magazine services. please check with your internet provider for information on possible internet data usage charges., free trials. your national geographic magazine subscription(s) may begin with a free trial. availability of a free trial is not guaranteed and, if one is available, it is only available on the specified terms of the free trial and to those who have not previously used one for the national geographic magazine subscription. your first payment will be charged to your chosen payment method immediately following the free trial, unless cancelled in accordance with the instructions for cancellation below. you can cancel your subscription at any time before the end of your free trial. we provide notice of the terms of the free trial at the time you register and you may not receive a separate notice that your free trial is about to end or has ended, or that your paid subscription has begun., promotional offers. promotional offers may be modified or terminated at any time and are only available on the specified terms of the promotion. introductory offers are for new subscribers only. annual subscriptions with promotional pricing will be renewed at the applicable subscription rate. we will notify you thirty (30) days in advance of your renewal date of the applicable subscription rate by sending a notice by email or by post to the email or street address you have registered for your account. if you do not wish to renew, you may cancel your subscription in accordance with the instructions included in that notice or as specified below. if you do not cancel your subscription prior to your renewal date (i.e., your next billing date), your subscription will be renewed at the applicable rate, without any additional action by you, and you authorise us to change your payment method for these amounts. we will not be able to notify you of any changes in applicable taxes., payment details. we will keep your detailed payment information, such as credit or debit card number and expiry date on file. you are responsible for keeping your payment details up to date by changing the details in your account settings. where your details change or are due to expire, where applicable law allows, we may obtain or receive from your payment provider updated payment details including your card number, expiry date, and cvv (or equivalent). this enables us to continue to provide you access to the national geographic magazine services. you authorise us to continue to charge your card using the updated information. if a payment is not successfully authorised due to expiration, insufficient funds, or otherwise, we may suspend or terminate your subscription. you also agree that we may charge your payment method on file if you decide to restart your subscription, unless you specify an alternative payment method when you restart your subscription., subscription obtained through third parties. if you obtain a national geographic magazine subscription via a third party, that subscription is also subject to the third party’s terms, and the provisions in this subscriber agreement concerning subscription purchase, billing, cancellation/refunds, and payment do not apply to that subscription to the extent this subscriber agreement conflicts with the applicable third party’s terms. for subscriptions obtained via a third party, your billing relationship will be directly with the applicable third party. any fees charged for your national geographic magazine subscription will be billed by the applicable third party using the payment information you have provided to such third party. to cancel a national geographic magazine subscription obtained via a third party, please check the third party’s terms for how to cancel., bundled subscription options. we may offer a national geographic magazine subscription bundled with other subscription services, including to affiliate or third party products and services. third party subscriptions, products, and services are governed by terms of use issued by those third parties., please allow 4-8 weeks for delivery of the first print edition issue. one year subscription to national geographic magazine includes 12 monthly issues; one year subscription to national geographic history includes 6 bi-monthly issues. please contact a customer service representative to report missing or damaged issues. if the post office alerts us that your print magazine is undeliverable, this will serve as notice of suspension of the contract due to the inability to deliver the goods and we have no further obligation unless we receive a corrected address within 2 years., cancellation and refund policy. you may cancel your national geographic magazine subscription by calling 0345 045 0355 or by sending an email to ngmintl@subscription.co.uk (or for national geographic history magazine, call +1-515-237-3674 or send an email to: natgeohistory@cdsfulfillment.com) at any time before the end of the current billing period or free trial. if you cancel an annual subscription, you will lose access to your digital subscription immediately, we will not send the remaining issues in your print subscription, and you will receive a pro-rated refund for the time remaining in your digital subscription and/or the portion of your print subscription that has not yet been processed for shipping. if your credit card account cannot be credited, we will refund you directly instead. if you cancel a monthly subscription, you will lose access to your digital subscription at the end of the month. if you subscribed via a third party, please check the terms you signed up to for how to cancel. you have a statutory right to withdraw within fourteen (14) days of signing up to the national geographic magazine service. however, you acknowledge that when you signed up to the national geographic magazine service which includes a digital subscription, you agree that if you access any digital content, you lose your right to withdraw from the national geographic magazine service., personal use. all subscription orders, which are discounted from the newsstand price, are for personal use only. subscription orders for resale or other commercial purpose are prohibited without prior written approval., copyright license grant and restrictions:, license. subject to the terms of this subscriber agreement, national geographic grants you a limited, non-transferable, non-assignable, revocable, non-exclusive and non-sublicensable right to make non-commercial, personal use of the national geographic subscription services. this is a license agreement and not an agreement for sale or assignment of any rights in the national geographic magazine service and national geographic content, which includes all information, text, files, images, video, sounds, musical works, works of authorship, materials, applications, software, product names, company names, trade names, logos, designs, and any other materials or content (collectively, "content") of national geographic and its affiliates and their licensors and assignors ("national geographic content”). the content is owned by national geographic, its affiliates and/or other licensors, and is protected by the copyright laws of the united states, as well as other intellectual property laws and treaties., license restrictions. you agree as a condition of your license you may not and agree not to: circumvent or disable any content protection system or digital rights management technology used in connection with the national geographic content; modify national geographic content by removing identification, copyright, or other proprietary notices from national geographic content; access or use national geographic content in a manner that suggests an association with our products, services, or brands; use national geographic content for any commercial or business-related use or in any commercial establishment or area open to the public, whether or not for profit; create derivative works of any national geographic content, or any part thereof, except as and only to the extent that any foregoing restriction is prohibited by applicable law; access, monitor or copy, or permit another person or entity to access, monitor or copy, any element of the national geographic content using a robot, spider, scraper, or other automated means or manual process without our express written permission; use national geographic content in any unlawful manner, for any unlawful purpose, or in any manner inconsistent with this subscriber agreement; share your login credentials with third parties; or otherwise allow third parties to violate the above restrictions., circumvent or disable any content protection system or digital rights management technology used in connection with the national geographic content;, modify national geographic content by removing identification, copyright, or other proprietary notices from national geographic content;, access or use national geographic content in a manner that suggests an association with our products, services, or brands;, use national geographic content for any commercial or business-related use or in any commercial establishment or area open to the public, whether or not for profit;, create derivative works of any national geographic content, or any part thereof, except as and only to the extent that any foregoing restriction is prohibited by applicable law;, access, monitor or copy, or permit another person or entity to access, monitor or copy, any element of the national geographic content using a robot, spider, scraper, or other automated means or manual process without our express written permission;, use national geographic content in any unlawful manner, for any unlawful purpose, or in any manner inconsistent with this subscriber agreement;, share your login credentials with third parties; or, otherwise allow third parties to violate the above restrictions., violations. any attempt to perform any of the restrictions listed in section 3(b) is a violation to the rights of national geographic, and the copyright holder, if different., use and sharing of certain information:, you acknowledge that national geographic is the data controller responsible for the processing of your personal data in order to provide you with the national geographic magazine service., for more information on how we and our affiliates within the walt disney family of companies collect, use, and share your personal data please refer to our uk & eu privacy rights notice and privacy policy, which are incorporated herein by reference., suspension and termination:, you agree that national geographic may, in its sole discretion and without notice or liability to you, in so far as possible under local laws, restrict, suspend, or terminate your access to all or part of the subscription service or to national geographic content if it is in violation of this subscriber agreement or applicable law or regulations or in any manner other than for the intended purpose and in accordance with all other guidelines and requirements applicable thereto. without limiting the foregoing, national geographic may restrict or suspend access to your national geographic account for cause and upon reasonable notice to you, which may be communicated electronically, which cause includes a) requests from law enforcement or government authorities, b) unexpected technical issues or problems, or c) if national geographic reasonably believes that your national geographic account has been created fraudulently, accessed fraudulently or anyone uses your account to commit fraud or for any purpose other than its intended purpose and in accordance with all of the requirements applicable thereto. national geographic also reserves the right, after notice to you, to terminate any national geographic account that remains inactive for one year (failure to log into your national geographic account will constitute inactivity for purpose of this agreement)., upon termination of your national geographic account, whether terminated by national geographic, or at your request (other than a cancellation of your subscription, in which case your subscription will continue as set out above), you will immediately lose the right to access the national geographic content through the national geographic magazine service., national geographic magazine subscriptions (print/digital) contact information:, additional provisions:, you understand and agree that the national geographic content you receive through your subscription service is intended for informational and entertainment purposes only; it does not constitute legal, financial, professional, medical, or healthcare advice or diagnosis and cannot be used for such purposes., content subjectivity. national geographic content tends to elicit varying reactions among different people. you may come across national geographic content that you find offensive, indecent, explicit or objectionable. you acknowledge responsibility for making your own choices regarding what national geographic content is appropriate for your family., third party services. the national geographic service may be provided in connection with third party services and content. we do not control those third party services and content. you should read the terms of use, agreements and privacy policies that apply to such third party services and content and agree that your access to the national geographic magazine services is subject to the usage terms set forth in the applicable third party terms of service., mobile networks. when you access the national geographic magazine service through a mobile network, your network or roaming provider’s messaging, data and other rates and fees will apply. downloading the national geographic content may be restricted by your network provider or may not work with your network provider or device., disclaimers; liability limitation. you have certain legal rights with respect to the national geographic magazine service and nothing in this agreement affects those rights. except as required by law or as expressly stated by national geographic, its affiliates, licensors, agents and service providers (collectively “the national geographic parties”) do not offer and expressly disclaim any promises or guarantees in relation to the national geographic content and the national geographic magazine service. you and not the national geographic parties assume the entire cost of any damage or repair to the national geographic magazine service or the national geographic content. to the extent not prohibited by applicable law, in no event shall the national geographic parties be liable for any personal injury, or any indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages of any kind, including lost profits and property damage, even if we were advised of the possibility of such damages, that result from the use of, or inability to use the national geographic content or the national geographic magazine service, however caused. nor shall we be held liable for delay or failure in performance resulting from causes beyond our reasonable control. in no event shall our total liability to you for all damages, losses and causes of action exceed one thousand pounds (£1,000). the liability limitation in this section apply under any legal theory (tort, contract, breach of warranty, strict liability or otherwise) and even if the national geographic parties have been advised of the possibility of such damages., submissions and unsolicited ideas policies. our policy does not allow us to accept or consider unsolicited creative ideas, suggestions, or materials. in connection with anything you submit to us, whether or not solicited by us, you agree that creative ideas, suggestions or other materials you submit are not being made in confidence or trust and that no confidential or fiduciary relationship is intended or created between you and us in any way, and that you have no expectation of review, compensation, or consideration of any type. national geographic does not claim ownership over any ideas, suggestions, or other materials submitted., jurisdiction. any dispute between you and national geographic or its affiliates shall be settled by the competent court as set forth in the applicable rules., choice of law. this agreement is governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of england and wales, without prejudice to the mandatory rules that may apply in your country of residence., dispute resolution. if you have a complaint please contact us directly at ngmescalations@subscription.co.uk., severability. if any provision of this agreement shall be unlawful, void or for any reason unenforceable, then that provision shall be deemed severable from the agreement and shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining provisions. you and national geographic shall replace the unlawful, void or unenforceable part with provision which are valid and binding and the effect of which given the contents of this agreement are, to the greatest extent possible, similar to that of the invalid, void or unenforceable part., survival. the provisions of this agreement which by their nature should survive the termination of this agreement shall survive such termination., entire agreement. this subscriber agreement and the provisions referenced herein, constitute the entire agreement between you and national geographic pertaining to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior or other arrangements, understandings, negotiations and discussions, whether oral or written. no waiver of any of the provisions of the subscriber agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or not similar), nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver unless otherwise expressly provided., terms of use, privacy policy, your california privacy rights, children's online privacy policy, interest-based ads, about nielsen measurement, do not sell my info, nat geo home, attend a live event, book a trip, buy maps, inspire your kids, shop nat geo, visit the d.c. museum, watch tv, learn about our impact, support our mission, nat geo partners, masthead, press room, advertise with us, subscribe, customer service, renew subscription, manage your subscription, work at nat geo, sign up for our newsletters, contribute to protect the planet, pitch a story]