[this picture of earth’s atmosphere at sunset was taken from the international space station. the lowest layer of the atmosphere, the troposphere, appears reddish brown. other layers of the atmosphere above it appear in light and dark shades of blue., image courtesy of the earth science and remote sensing unit, nasa johnson space center, by maria temming, may 2, 2022 at 6:30 am, an atmosphere is a mix of gases that surrounds a planetary body. earth’s atmosphere extends from the ground to more than 10,000 kilometers (6,200 miles) high. it’s about 78 percent nitrogen. another 21 percent is oxygen. the rest is trace amounts of water vapor, methane, argon, carbon dioxide and other gases. earth’s atmosphere contains five distinct layers, which get thinner higher up — until the atmosphere fades into outer space., the atmosphere makes life possible on earth. we breathe its oxygen. plants use its carbon dioxide to grow. ozone in the atmosphere shields life on the ground from the sun’s harmful ultraviolet rays. clouds and weather play a central role in earth’s water cycle. carbon dioxide and other “greenhouse gases” in the atmosphere trap some of the sun’s heat. this makes earth warm enough to live on. (note: this “greenhouse effect” is natural. but human industry has pumped lots of extra carbon into the atmosphere, ramping the effect up. this is now driving climate change.), earth is not the only world with an atmosphere. other planets, dwarf planets and moons do, too. their atmospheres contain different mixes of gases. the dwarf planet pluto has a wispy atmosphere made mostly of nitrogen, methane and carbon monoxide. saturn and jupiter, meanwhile, are padded with thick atmospheres of hydrogen and helium. these gas giants’ thick atmospheres, like earth’s, can whip up dazzling storms and auroras. astronomers have even glimpsed the atmospheres of planets orbiting other stars. and some of those exoplanets might just have weather similar to our own., astronomers are using what they know about atmospheres to predict the weather on distant moons and planets., check out the full list of scientists say., weekly updates to help you use science news for students in the learning environment, thank you for signing up!, there was a problem signing you up., argon: an element first discovered on august 13, 1894, by scottish chemist sir william ramsay and english physicist john william strutt, better known as lord rayleigh. argon was the first “noble” gas, meaning one that does not react chemically with other elements. for its discovery, ramsey would receive the 1904 nobel prize in chemistry and rayleigh the 1904 nobel prize in physics., astronomer: a scientist who works in the field of research that deals with celestial objects, space and the physical universe., atmosphere: the envelope of gases surrounding earth, another planet or a moon., aurora: a light display in the sky caused when incoming energetic particles from the sun collide with gas molecules in a planet’s upper atmosphere. the best known of these is earth’s aurora borealis, or northern lights. on some outer gas planets, like jupiter and saturn, the combination of a fast rate of rotation and strong magnetic field leads to high electrical currents in the upper atmosphere, above the planets’ poles. this, too, can cause auroral “light” shows in their upper atmosphere., carbon: a chemical element that is the physical basis of all life on earth. carbon exists freely as graphite and diamond. it is an important part of coal, limestone and petroleum, and is capable of self-bonding, chemically, to form an enormous number of chemically, biologically and commercially important molecules. (in climate studies) the term carbon sometimes will be used almost interchangeably with carbon dioxide to connote the potential impacts that some action, product, policy or process may have on long-term atmospheric warming., carbon dioxide: (or co2) a colorless, odorless gas produced by all animals when the oxygen they inhale reacts with the carbon-rich foods that they’ve eaten. carbon dioxide also is released when organic matter burns (including fossil fuels like oil or gas). carbon dioxide acts as a greenhouse gas, trapping heat in earth’s atmosphere. plants convert carbon dioxide into oxygen during photosynthesis, the process they use to make their own food., climate: the weather conditions that typically exist in one area, in general, or over a long period., climate change: long-term, significant change in the climate of earth. it can happen naturally or in response to human activities, including the burning of fossil fuels and clearing of forests., cloud: a plume of molecules or particles, such as water droplets, that move under the action of an outside force, such as wind, radiation or water currents. (in atmospheric science) a mass of airborne water droplets and ice crystals that travel as a plume, usually high in earth’s atmosphere. its movement is driven by winds. (in computing) a network of computers (hardware), known as servers, which are connected to the internet. they can be used to store data and computer programs (software) that can be accessed by one or many people at once, and from anywhere in the world., dwarf planet: one of the solar system’s small celestial objects. like a true planet, it orbits the sun. however, dwarf planets are too small to qualify as true planets. prime examples of these objects: pluto and ceres., exoplanet: short for extrasolar planet, it’s a planet that orbits a star outside our solar system., gas giant: a giant planet that is made mostly of helium and hydrogen, which on earth are gases. jupiter and saturn are gas giants., greenhouse effect: the warming of earth’s atmosphere due to the buildup of heat-trapping gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane. scientists refer to these pollutants as greenhouse gases. the greenhouse effect also can occur in smaller environments. for instance, when cars are left in the sun, the incoming sunlight turns to heat, becomes trapped inside and quickly can make the indoor temperature a health risk., greenhouse gas: a gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect by absorbing heat. carbon dioxide is one example of a greenhouse gas., helium: an inert gas that is the lightest member of the noble gas series. helium can become a solid at -272 degrees celsius (-458 degrees fahrenheit)., hydrogen: the lightest element in the universe. as a gas, it is colorless, odorless and highly flammable. it’s an integral part of many fuels, fats and chemicals that make up living tissues. it’s made of a single proton (which serves as its nucleus) orbited by a single electron., jupiter: (in astronomy) the solar system’s largest planet, it has the shortest day length (9 hours, 55 minutes). a gas giant, its low density indicates that this planet is composed mostly of the light elements hydrogen and helium. this planet also releases more heat than it receives from the sun as gravity compresses its mass (and slowly shrinks the planet)., methane: a hydrocarbon with the chemical formula ch4 (meaning there are four hydrogen atoms bound to one carbon atom). it’s a natural constituent of what’s known as natural gas. it’s also emitted by decomposing plant material in wetlands and is belched out by cows and other ruminant livestock. from a climate perspective, methane is 20 times more potent than carbon dioxide is in trapping heat in earth’s atmosphere, making it a very important greenhouse gas., moon: the natural satellite of any planet., nitrogen: a colorless, odorless and nonreactive gaseous element that forms about 78 percent of earth's atmosphere. its scientific symbol is n. nitrogen is released in the form of nitrogen oxides as fossil fuels burn. it comes in two stable forms. both have 14 protons in the nucleus. but one has 14 neutrons in that nucleus; the other has 15. for that difference, they are known, respectively, as nitrogen-14 and nitrogen-15 (or 14n and 15n)., oxygen: a gas that makes up about 21 percent of earth's atmosphere. all animals and many microorganisms need oxygen to fuel their growth (and metabolism)., ozone: a colorless gas made of molecules that contain three oxygen atoms. it can form high in the atmosphere or at ground level. when it forms at earth’s surface, ozone is a pollutant that irritates eyes and lungs. it is also a major ingredient of smog., planet: a large celestial object that orbits a star but unlike a star does not generate any visible light., pluto: a distant world that is located in the kuiper belt, just beyond neptune. pluto is the ninth largest object orbiting the sun., saturn: the sixth planet out from the sun in our solar system. one of the two gas giants, this planet takes 10.6 hours to rotate (completing a day) and 29.5 earth years to complete one orbit of the sun. it has at least 82 moons. but what most distinguishes this planet is the broad and flat plane of bright rings that orbit it., star: the basic building block from which galaxies are made. stars develop when gravity compacts clouds of gas. when they become hot enough, stars will emit light and sometimes other forms of electromagnetic radiation. the sun is our closest star., ultraviolet: a portion of the light spectrum that is close to violet but invisible to the human eye., water vapor: water in its gaseous state, capable of being suspended in the air., weather: conditions in the atmosphere at a localized place and a particular time. it is usually described in terms of particular features, such as air pressure, humidity, moisture, any precipitation (rain, snow or ice), temperature and wind speed. weather constitutes the actual conditions that occur at any time and place. it’s different from climate, which is a description of the conditions that tend to occur in some general region during a particular month or season., maria temming is the assistant editor at science news for students. she has bachelor's degrees in physics and english, and a master's in science writing., free educator resources are available for this article. register to access:, already registered? enter your e-mail address above., readability score: 7, founded in 2003, science news for students is a free, award-winning online publication dedicated to providing age-appropriate science news to learners, parents and educators. the publication, as well as science news magazine, are published by the society for science, a nonprofit 501(c)(3) membership organization dedicated to public engagement in scientific research and education., © society for science & the public 2000–2022. all rights reserved.][science news for students, science news for students, like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers, smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’, losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood, like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers, prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence, five tips to consider when dating goes wrong, scientists say: atmosphere, night lights make even the seas bright, ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds, explainer: all about orbits, scientists say: atmosphere, scientists say: constellation, smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’, this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air, this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them, scientists say: atmosphere, an atmosphere is a jacket of gas surrounding a planetary body, share this:, educators and parents, sign up for the cheat sheet, power words, about maria temming, classroom resources for this article, related stories, scientists say: your weekly word, climate change is upping the height of earth’s lower atmosphere, thick atmosphere boosts how fast venus spins, more stories from science news for students on earth, night lights make even the seas bright, ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds, analyze this: corals stash microplastics in their skeletons, a bold plan to save the planet turns carbon dioxide into stone, we all unknowingly eat plastic, which may host toxic pollutants, un report calls for two-pronged approach to slow climate impacts, a disinfectant made from sawdust knocks out deadly microbes, the alps’ matterhorn shows how much even big mountains sway, science news for students, more information, society for science]scientists say: atmosphere | science news for students[atmosphere, in a sentence, argon, astronomer, atmosphere, aurora, carbon, carbon dioxide, climate, climate change, cloud, dwarf planet, exoplanet, gas giant, greenhouse effect, greenhouse gas, helium, hydrogen, jupiter, methane, moon, nitrogen, oxygen, ozone, planet, pluto, saturn, star, ultraviolet, water vapor, weather][all topics life humans earth space tech, life, humans, earth, space, tech, science news, explore all stories collections explainers word of the week experiments cool jobs analyze this technically fiction invention & innovation climate change chronicles classroom questions, all stories, collections, explainers, word of the week, experiments, cool jobs, analyze this, technically fiction, invention & innovation, climate change chronicles, classroom questions, about us, education resources, donate, all topics earth environment climate oceans agriculture humans health & medicine psychology archaeology life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics physics materials science space planets tech computing chemistry math science & society all topics, earth environment climate oceans agriculture, environment, climate, oceans, agriculture, humans health & medicine psychology archaeology, health & medicine, psychology, archaeology, life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics, animals, brain, plants, fossils, ecosystems, microbes, genetics, physics materials science, materials science, space planets, planets, tech computing, computing, chemistry, math, science & society, life life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics, animals, brain, plants, fossils, ecosystems, microbes, genetics, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022, animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, humans humans health & medicine psychology archaeology health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022 psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, humans health & medicine psychology archaeology, health & medicine, psychology, archaeology, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022 psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter3 hours ago, psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, earth earth environment climate oceans agriculture earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022 environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, earth environment climate oceans agriculture, environment, climate, oceans, agriculture, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022 environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022, oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022, environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, space space planets space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022 earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, space planets, planets, space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022 earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022, space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, tech tech computing tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022 materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, tech computing, computing, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022 materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022, tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022, materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, email, facebook, twitter, pinterest, reddit, google classroom, print, e-mail, twitter, power words, scientists say: your weekly word by bethany brookshireaugust 21, 2015, earth climate change is upping the height of earth’s lower atmosphere by freda kreierjanuary 3, 2022, planets thick atmosphere boosts how fast venus spins by lisa grossmanjuly 23, 2018, oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022, environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, environment analyze this: corals stash microplastics in their skeletons by carolyn wilkeapril 19, 2022, earth a bold plan to save the planet turns carbon dioxide into stone by douglas foxapril 14, 2022, environment we all unknowingly eat plastic, which may host toxic pollutants by alison pearce stevensapril 6, 2022, climate un report calls for two-pronged approach to slow climate impacts by nikk ogasamarch 28, 2022, materials science a disinfectant made from sawdust knocks out deadly microbes by carolyn wilkemarch 25, 2022, earth the alps’ matterhorn shows how much even big mountains sway by peg lopatamarch 18, 2022, science news, science news in high schools, using science news for students in the classroom, rights & permissions, newsletter, follow science news on facebook, follow science news on twitter, follow science news via rss, about the society, donate, careers]