[we have learned that a number of unauthorized agents are sending mail solicitations and placing telemarketing calls, attempting to acquire new subscriptions and renewal orders for our magazine titles. these agents are not approved to represent national geographic, nor are they affiliated with national geographic in any way. please do not give out any personal, payment or credit card information. do not renew your subscription through the mail or over the phone with any of the unauthorized agents listed below:, allied publishers service american magazine service associated publisher services atlantic publishers group (apg) century magazine publishers cc media inc consolidated processing inc. circulation billing service choice publications discount mags.com 4 magazines global publication processing, inc. (gpp) global reader services gotmagsnow gulf state pub innovative data services magazines (wilshire blvd., los angeles) magazine billing network magazine billing services magazine consultants magazine distribution services magazine service center magazine subscription services nationalgeographicbackissues.com national magazine services inc npg national publisher's group (glendale, ca) orbital publishing pacific magazine billing publishers billing association publishers billing center publishers billing exchange publishers marketing bureau publishers marketing services inc. publishers payment center publishers payment service publishers service center readers billing services readers direct publication readers payment service satellite publishing seascape publishers network southwest publication processing (spp) subscription billing services subscription payment services unique readers services united publishers network united publication services united publishers service us reader inc., we have been working with our legal department, the united states postal service and state attorney general offices to track down these agents and to issue cease and desist orders to stop this activity. should you be contacted by any of these unauthorized agents, please notify us of the details by writing to:, national geographic consumer and member marketing division 1145 17th street nw washington dc 20036, national geographic has recently received calls and emails from people who have been sent a letter by various claim services (including guardian financial, global financial, alliance financial and other claim services) telling them that they are a winner of a national geographic sweepstakes. the letter asks them to call a number and cash an enclosed check. this is a scam and national geographic has no involvement or relationship with any of the people or companies named in the letter. please do not cash the check or give the company listed in the letter any personal information of any kind. national geographic has alerted the fraud section of the us department of justice of the scam., there has been recent media coverage about the mistreatment of young adults who join "magazine crews" that sell subscriptions door to door to the public. we wish to assure our customers that national geographic does not authorize any door to door agents to acquire subscriptions on our behalf. national geographic does use several legitimate subscription services and our policy has been clearly communicated to all of these approved agents. we have worked aggressively to address this issue and, in the future, will continue to specifically prohibit such door to door sales of our magazines., if you are unsure of an offer you have received, or if you believe you may have already placed an order, either through the mail with one of the above mentioned unauthorized agents, or through a door to door solicitation, please do not hesitate to contact us immediately at 1-800-647-5463 or at natgeomagazine@cdsfulfillment.com. we will be glad to investigate this matter for you., copy © 1996-2022 national geographic society. copyright © 2015-2022 national geographic partners llc. all rights reserved.][, important customer service alerts, unauthorized renewals and subscription offers through the mail and by phone:, sweepstake scam:, mistreatment of magazine crews:, if action is needed:, national geographic offers, customer service, national geographic publications]- online customer services[][new subscriptions, gift subscriptions, important customer alerts, frequently asked questions, email customer service, national geographic history, national geographic kids, national geographic little kids, national geographic traveller, terms of use, |, privacy policy, |, children's online privacy policy, |, internet-based ads, |, do not sell my personal information, |, about nielsen management, |, ngmintl@subscription.co.uk]