[come to the math side. we have pi., mizina/istock/getty images plus, by maria temming, march 1, 2022 at 6:30 am, march 14 is right around the corner, and math geeks know what that means. it’s almost pi day. not pie day — although pi day is a good excuse to eat circular treats. this holiday honors one of math’s most famous constants: pi., the number pi, or π, is a ratio. it’s equal to the circumference of a circle divided by the circle’s diameter. that comes out to about 3.14159. this is true for circles of all sizes, from pennies to pizzas to planets. pi’s value is often rounded to 3.14. that’s why pi day is celebrated on march 14, or 3/14. it’s also why one earth-sized planet orbiting another star every 3.14 days is nicknamed “pi earth.” , but the exact value of pi is actually impossible to write out. last year, a powerful computer calculated pi to a record-breaking 62.8 trillion digits. and in 2005, one 23-year-old used clever mental tricks to recite nearly 68,000 of those digits from memory. no one, though, will ever get to the end of pi. that’s because the string of digits after the decimal place goes on forever without repeating. this makes pi an irrational number., historians aren’t sure when people first discovered the concept of pi. but it’s been known in some form for almost 4,000 years. ancient greeks and babylonians knew estimates of it. the egyptians may have used pi to build the pyramids. and still today, pi is used in just about all math involving circles. it helps engineers plot the orbits of satellites. physicists use it to understand particle smashups inside the loop of the large hadron collider. pi also helps describe other kinds of curves, such as light waves and sound waves., weekly updates to help you use science news for students in the learning environment, thank you for signing up!, there was a problem signing you up., some people want to knock pi off its pedestal. they think another constant might make math easier to learn. that constant is tau, or τ. it is equal to 2π. in math, angles are often measured in radians. and while pi is the number of radians in half a circle, tau is the number of radians in a whole circle. so equations written with tau might help people understand and enjoy math more, tau supporters say., of course, a simple pi-to-tau switch may not win over true math-phobes. but if you’ve got anxiety about arithmetic, never fear. science has revealed some ways to manage that stress. that way, you can have your pi and enjoy math, too.  , scientists say: pi this short explainer dishes up the basics on math’s most famous constant. (4/26/2021) readability: 7.7, meet ‘pi’ — a new earth-sized exoplanet the planet’s nickname refers to its 3.14-day orbit and its oven-warm surface temperature. (12/17/2020) readability: 7.5, for these artists, math is their muse meet a quilter who makes pi-inspired artwork. (6/6/2019) readability: 7.4, scientists say: geometry, explainer: the basics of geometry, don’t let math stress you out, forget pi day. we should be celebrating tau day (science news), pi master’s storied recall (science news), word find, every march 14, math nerds around the world celebrate pi day. (that’s because the date 3/14 includes the first three digits of pi.) celebrate pi this day — or any other — with pi-themed logic and sudoku puzzles and card games. flex your memory skills with a song that lists the first 100 digits of pi. or use pi to find the circumference of a baked pie — perhaps using science news for students’ favorite chocolate mousse pie recipe., angle: the space (usually measured in degrees) between two intersecting lines or surfaces at or close to the point where they meet., anxiety: a nervous reaction to events causing excessive uneasiness and apprehension. people with anxiety may even develop panic attacks., circumference: the size of a circle or other geometric object by measuring the distance all of the way along its outer edge., collider: (in physics) sometimes called an “atom smasher,” it is a type of particle accelerator that speeds up charged particles (ions) through an electric field inside a hollow tube or racetrack-shaped structure. eventually the device will direct the ions to collide with an unmoving target or another beam of moving particles. the ensuing collisions force some particles to interact — and break apart or briefly bind. some of smashed particle also may recombine, creating new particles. the biggest of these machines are used to hunt for the basic building blocks of all nature., constant: continuous or uninterrupted. (in mathematics) a number that is known and unchanging, usually based on some mathematical definition. for example, π (pi) is a constant equal to 3.14. . . and defined as the circumference of a circle divided by its diameter., diameter: the length of a straight line that runs through the center of a circle or spherical object, starting at the edge on one side and ending at the edge on the far side., digit: (in math) an individual numeral (from 0 to 9) used to represent a number or some part of a number., engineer: a person who uses science to solve problems. as a verb, to engineer means to design a device, material or process that will solve some problem or unmet need. (v.) to perform these tasks, or the name for a person who performs such tasks., equation: in mathematics, the statement that two quantities are equal. in geometry, equations are often used to determine the shape of a curve or surface., hadron: one of a group of particles that are made up of other, smaller particles — quarks — held together by a particular kind of force. the protons and neutrons found in the nucleus of atoms are hadrons., irrational: (in math) a number that cannot be written as a whole number or fraction. when written as a decimal number, its digits never end or repeat. examples are π (pi), the ratio of a circle’s diameter to its circumference (3.14159…), and e, euler’s number (2.71828…)., orbit: the curved path of a celestial object or spacecraft around a galaxy, star, planet or moon. one complete circuit around a celestial body., particle: a minute amount of something., physicist: a scientist who studies the nature and properties of matter and energy., pi: (in mathematics) usually written using the greek letter π. it is a constant equal to 3.14. . . and defined as the circumference of a circle divided by its diameter., planet: a large celestial object that orbits a star but unlike a star does not generate any visible light., pyramid: a monumental structure with a square or triangular base and sloping sides that meet in a point at the top. the best known are those made from stone as royal tombs in ancient egypt., quadrillion: a very big unit of measure equal to 1,000 trillion. it would be written with a 1 followed by 15 zeros., ratio: the relationship between two numbers or amounts. when written out, the numbers usually are separated by a colon, such as a 50:50. that would mean that for every 50 units of one thing (on the left) there would also be 50 units of another thing (represented by the number on the right)., satellite: a moon orbiting a planet or a vehicle or other manufactured object that orbits some celestial body in space., sound wave: a wave that transmits sound. sound waves have alternating swaths of high and low pressure., star: the basic building block from which galaxies are made. stars develop when gravity compacts clouds of gas. when they become hot enough, stars will emit light and sometimes other forms of electromagnetic radiation. the sun is our closest star., stress: (in psychology) a mental, physical, emotional or behavioral reaction to an event or circumstance (stressor) that disturbs a person or animal’s usual state of being or places increased demands on a person or animal; psychological stress can be either positive or negative., wave: a disturbance or variation that travels through space and matter in a regular, oscillating fashion., maria temming is the assistant editor at science news for students. she has bachelor's degrees in physics and english, and a master's in science writing., free educator resources are available for this article. register to access:, already registered? enter your e-mail address above., readability score: 6, founded in 2003, science news for students is a free, award-winning online publication dedicated to providing age-appropriate science news to learners, parents and educators. the publication, as well as science news magazine, are published by the society for science, a nonprofit 501(c)(3) membership organization dedicated to public engagement in scientific research and education., © society for science & the public 2000–2022. all rights reserved.][science news for students, science news for students, like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers, smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’, losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood, like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers, prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence, five tips to consider when dating goes wrong, scientists say: atmosphere, night lights make even the seas bright, ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds, explainer: all about orbits, scientists say: atmosphere, scientists say: constellation, smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’, this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air, this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them, let’s learn about pi, this never-ending number is more than just circular pastry, share this:, educators and parents, sign up for the cheat sheet, power words, about maria temming, classroom resources for this article, related stories, scientists say: pi, meet ‘pi’ — a new earth-sized planet, for these artists, math is their muse, more stories from science news for students on math, scientists say: variable, scientists say: equation, why some icicles become scallops not spikes, try this: walking on water with science, science news for students, more information, society for science]let’s learn about pi | science news for students[angle, anxiety, circumference, collider, constant, diameter, digit, engineer, equation, hadron, irrational, orbit, particle, physicist, pi, planet, pyramid, quadrillion, ratio, satellite, sound wave, star, stress, wave][all topics life humans earth space tech, life, humans, earth, space, tech, science news, explore all stories collections explainers word of the week experiments cool jobs analyze this technically fiction invention & innovation climate change chronicles classroom questions, all stories, collections, explainers, word of the week, experiments, cool jobs, analyze this, technically fiction, invention & innovation, climate change chronicles, classroom questions, about us, education resources, donate, all topics earth environment climate oceans agriculture humans health & medicine psychology archaeology life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics physics materials science space planets tech computing chemistry math science & society all topics, earth environment climate oceans agriculture, environment, climate, oceans, agriculture, humans health & medicine psychology archaeology, health & medicine, psychology, archaeology, life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics, animals, brain, plants, fossils, ecosystems, microbes, genetics, physics materials science, materials science, space planets, planets, tech computing, computing, chemistry, math, science & society, life life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter4 hours ago tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, life animals brain plants fossils ecosystems microbes genetics, animals, brain, plants, fossils, ecosystems, microbes, genetics, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter4 hours ago tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter4 hours ago, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022, animals losing some genes may explain how vampire bats can live on blood by richard kemenyapril 28, 2022, humans humans health & medicine psychology archaeology health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter4 hours ago psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022 psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, humans health & medicine psychology archaeology, health & medicine, psychology, archaeology, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter4 hours ago psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022 psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, health & medicine like bloodhounds, worms are sniffing out human cancers by katie grace carpenter4 hours ago, psychology prevention programs can help reduce teen dating violence by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, psychology five tips to consider when dating goes wrong by kathiann kowalskimay 5, 2022, earth earth environment climate oceans agriculture earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022 environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, earth environment climate oceans agriculture, environment, climate, oceans, agriculture, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022 environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022, oceans night lights make even the seas bright by carolyn gramlingapril 27, 2022, environment ponds made to control floods can spew climate-warming gases, study finds by kathiann kowalskiapril 19, 2022, space space planets space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022 earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, space planets, planets, space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022 earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022 space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, space explainer: all about orbits by trisha muromay 3, 2022, earth scientists say: atmosphere by maria temmingmay 2, 2022, space scientists say: constellation by maria temmingapril 25, 2022, tech tech computing tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022 materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, tech computing, computing, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022 tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022 materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, tech smartphones can now bring ice age animals back to ‘life’ by laura allenmay 6, 2022, tech this sun-powered system delivers energy as it pulls water from the air by laura allenmay 2, 2022, materials science this new fabric can ‘hear’ sounds or broadcast them by carolyn wilkeapril 29, 2022, email, facebook, twitter, pinterest, reddit, google classroom, print, e-mail, twitter, power words, word find puzzle, math scientists say: pi by bethany brookshireapril 26, 2021, space meet ‘pi’ — a new earth-sized planet by rachel crowelldecember 17, 2020, math for these artists, math is their muse by stephen ornesjune 6, 2019, math scientists say: variable by maria temming4 hours ago, math scientists say: equation by maria temmingmarch 28, 2022, physics why some icicles become scallops not spikes by rachel crowellfebruary 21, 2022, physics try this: walking on water with science by bethany brookshireapril 2, 2020, science news, science news in high schools, using science news for students in the classroom, rights & permissions, newsletter, follow science news on facebook, follow science news on twitter, follow science news via rss, about the society, donate, careers]