[thanks for your interest in applying to camp mak-a-dream!, camp mak-a-dream 2022 schedule, the health and safety of the community, our campers, volunteers and staff, is our priority. we will continue to evaluate programming options, mitigation strategies and what modifications may need to be put in place. all programs are subject to change if/as conditions warrant due to covid-19., 2022 covid protocols, mitigation strategies and your participation – please click to download and review before  you apply!, camper applications, spring retreats – applications are closing soon- apply below!, summer sessions – applications are open now! apply below!, fall retreats – applications open june 1, if you are a new camper or facing hardship and wish to apply for a travel scholarship, click below to download the form:, we are accepting applications for volunteers & presenters for summer and fall sessions. , we have a limited amount of summer seasonal staff positions remaining – learn more about those positions here. , 2022 covid protocols, mitigation strategies and your participation – please click to download and review before  you apply!, applications must be reviewed after being submitted, to determine acceptance. , tips for applying:, you may need the following information to complete the application (sections vary if in-person vs virtual):, please be sure to check your junk mail/spam and white list emails from camp mak-a-dream, campdoc and constant contact to ensure you receive all relevant communication., those who apply will be contacted within two-three weeks of us receiving your application and applications will continue to be accepted until all positions have been filled and updates to position availability will be posted here periodically., _________________________________________________, *please read these instructions before clicking the “apply ” button below*, this application should take no more than 10-15 minutes to complete. if you are a first time applicant, please be prepared to share information about the skills and experience you possess that are applicable to the position for which you are applying, provide education and employment information, references with contact information and detailed answers to questions about your interest in our organization and the position for which you are applying. once your application has been submitted, you will have the ability to edit the information., tips for applying:, *very important: if your application has been submitted correctly you will immediately receive a receipt from active in your email ‘in box’. in addition, you will also receive an email message with additional information within 2 hours. if you do not receive this email, your application was not received. please be sure to check your junk mail/spam and white list emails from camp mak-a-dream, active and constant contact to ensure that you receive all relevant communication. please try again or call the active support line at 1-877-228-4881., , δ, , children’s oncology camp foundation, d.b.a. camp mak-a-dream is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit registered in the us under ein: 81-0472959][apply, apply for camp or volunteer]apply — camp mak-a-dream[camp mak-a-dream 2022 schedule, camper applications, travel scholarship app.summer 2022, travel scholarship adult&family.2022, 2022 covid protocols, mitigation strategies and your participation , applications must be reviewed after being submitted, to determine acceptance. , apply , do not stop here!, you must complete the health profile to 100% before your application will be reviewed to determine your acceptance to camp., before , 10-15 minutes, apply, continue, continue to cart, complete, *very important: , if you do not receive this email, your application was not received, getting here, missoula office, phone, fax, camp address, phone, sign up for our email newsletter, connect with us on][programs + explore all camps & programs kids camp siblings camp teen camp teen heads up conference young adult conference heads up conference adult retreats caregivers retreats family camp parents calendar, explore all camps & programs, kids camp, siblings camp, teen camp, teen heads up conference, young adult conference, heads up conference, adult retreats, caregivers retreats, family camp, parents, calendar, support + explore all ways to support donate volunteer our wish list 10 ways to support planned giving & major gifts seasonal staff foundations & corporate giving, explore all ways to support, donate, volunteer, our wish list, 10 ways to support, planned giving & major gifts, seasonal staff, foundations & corporate giving, events + all events calendar ratpod lip sync battle camp event kit open house & family fun day, all events, calendar, ratpod, lip sync battle, camp event kit, open house & family fun day, about + about us history & mission staff board of directors partners facility rental getting here contact us, about us, history & mission, staff, board of directors, partners, facility rental, getting here, contact us, travel scholarship app.summer 2022, travel scholarship adult&family.2022, when you click apply below, you will be directed to campdoc, an online registration site., if this is your first time to camp mak-a-dream or your first time applying through campdoc, you will need to create an account. *save this login and password information, you will need it again., enter the participant information.  for family camp or the caregivers retreat, please provide the survivor’s information as the participant.  there will be a section in the health profile to provide information about the caregiver/family members., on the registration page, click “register for a new session” to see the list of camps the participant is eligible to attend. participants are welcome to apply for family camp or the caregivers retreat in addition to their individual camp.  add the preferred session and click continue., when you click “register” on the confirmation page, you will see a pop-up telling you that you have successfully registered. do not stop here! click ok, and you will be able to access the application questions in the health profile.  you must complete the health profile to 100% before your application will be reviewed to determine your acceptance to camp., when a section is complete, you will see a green check mark in front of the section name. if you see a red dot, there are required questions in that section that must be answered to complete the section., campdoc will automatically be saving your answers as you work through the form. you can go back into a section to edit information if needed., you should see a message pop up saying “heath profile complete” and receive an email notification when you have filled the application out to 100%.  don’t worry that there isn’t a submit button, it has been saving as you go., if you have an additional camper to register, click on “add new participant” to start the process for your next camper., all complete health profiles will be reviewed by our medical committee to determine eligibility and acceptance.   if a participant is eligible to move forward in the application process, a physical form completed by the participant’s doctor must be received and reviewed prior to a final decision about the participant’s acceptance being made.  the form is available to download from within the health profile, in the physical form sub-section, for those who wish to be proactive in providing the form to their doctor prior to receiving a status update., all status updates, including acceptance, will be sent via email to the address you provided., if you are accepted to your session, there will be additional forms in your health profile that will require your attention., campers who have attended two or more times may be placed on a wait list.  all campers placed on the wait list will hear of acceptance no later than 14 days before the start of the session., medications (name, dose, frequency), contact information (including emergency phone number), hospital/institution contact information, oncologist contact information, primary care doctor information, when you click apply button below, you will be directed to active, an online registration site. choose the application for which you are applying (virtual camp presenter/volunteer) and hit continue., if you have applied to camp through active before, please use the same email and password – if this is your first time to camp or your first time applying through active, you will need to create an account. *save this login and password, you will need it again., always hit continue to move through the application process., when you are done filling out the information continue to cart; if you are not brought to the review & check out page, information is missing (questions not answered will appear in red)., hit complete to finish the application process., you should see a pop-up message saying, ‘thank you. your transaction is complete.’, email*, comments this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.]