[the library of congress welcomes researchers to its reading rooms and research centers. appointments are optional, but encouraged to serve you best, ensure collection material is accessible during your visit and optimize your time at the library. the thomas jefferson building has reopened to visitors via timed, ticketed entry—learn how to obtain a timed-entry pass. virtual events and online services continue to be available., 35 answers, browse:, we encourage you to ask a specialist using one of the links below. to ask a general question or browse our faqs use the tabs above. areas offering chat service are indicated using the "chat" icon ., select the button below to ask a general question:, use this form to ask a general question, or return to the first tab to find a subject specialist., please provide as much detail as possible, including information on resources you have already consulted., this helps us determine what additional resources, collections, and/or services you might have available to you locally., what happened to this resource from the former ask a librarian site?, yes. it is possible to pre-register online for a reader identification card, but the process must be completed in person at the library., yes. the teachers website provides instructions and examples for citing primary sources from the library's collections., yes. the library provides photocopying and printing services and scanners in most public research areas., we offer online chat service from monday-friday, 12:00-4:00 pm (et).][ask a librarian, , subjects & formats, regions & languages, programs & services, other ways to connect, related resources]ask a librarian - ask a librarian[optional, encouraged, warning:, have a question? need assistance?, yes., yes., yes.][library of congress, ask a librarian, browse:, all, groups africa, middle east american folklife asia business caribbean, iberia, latin america collections management division europe film, tv, video genealogy, local history general reference history, humanities, social sciences law loan & accounts manuscripts maps, geography national library service for the blind and print disabled newspapers, periodicals, comic books performing arts poetry, literature preservation prints and photographs rare books, special collections recorded sound, audio science, technical reports teacher resources veterans history, africa, middle east, american folklife, asia, business, caribbean, iberia, latin america, collections management division, europe, film, tv, video, genealogy, local history, general reference, history, humanities, social sciences, law, loan & accounts, manuscripts, maps, geography, national library service for the blind and print disabled, newspapers, periodicals, comic books, performing arts, poetry, literature, preservation, prints and photographs, rare books, special collections, recorded sound, audio, science, technical reports, teacher resources, veterans history, topics 2about the library of congress 1accessibility 1appraisals 1cataloging 8collections 3copyright 1correspondence policy 1donations 2publishing 8reading rooms 11research 14using the library 3using the library (offsite) 2using the library of congress 1website, 2about the library of congress, 1accessibility, 1appraisals, 1cataloging, 8collections, 3copyright, 1correspondence policy, 1donations, 2publishing, 8reading rooms, 11research, 14using the library, 3using the library (offsite), 2using the library of congress, 1website, ask a specialist, ask a general question, browse frequently asked questions, business, film, tv, video, genealogy, local history, history, humanities, social sciences, law, manuscripts, map, geography, newspapers, periodicals, comic books, performing arts, prints and photographs, rare books, special collections, recorded sound, audio, science, technical reports, africa, middle east, asia, caribbean, iberia, latin america, europe, american folklife center, congress.gov, copyright, duplication services, loan, reserves, accounts, services for the blind and print disabled, poetry, literature, preservation, teacher resources, veterans history project, what is the library's general reference correspondence policy? last updated: jun 19, 2020 | topics: correspondence policy| views: 2686, correspondence policy, where did the virtual reference shelf go? what happened to this resource from the former ask a librarian site? last updated: sep 08, 2020 | views: 6598, can i sign up online to use the library of congress? yes. it is possible to pre-register online for a reader identification card, but the process must be completed in person at the library. last updated: aug 28, 2020 | topics: research using the library using the library (offsite)| views: 5125, research, using the library, using the library (offsite), what is the library's general reference correspondence policy? last updated: jun 19, 2020 | topics: correspondence policy| views: 2686, correspondence policy, how do i get an isbn for my book? last updated: aug 20, 2020 | topics: publishing| views: 2420, publishing, does the library of congress have phd dissertations in the collections? last updated: aug 03, 2020 | topics: collections reading rooms research using the library| views: 2187, collections, reading rooms, research, using the library, how do i donate my book (photograph / print / other historic item) to the library of congress? last updated: aug 20, 2020 | topics: collections donations| views: 1845, collections, donations, is guidance available for citing items or articles on the library's website? yes. the teachers website provides instructions and examples for citing primary sources from the library's collections. last updated: sep 08, 2020 | topics: website| views: 1165, website, who can use the library's reading rooms? can i use the library's reading rooms? last updated: sep 02, 2020 | topics: reading rooms using the library| views: 979, reading rooms, using the library, can i print documents in the library's reading rooms? yes. the library provides photocopying and printing services and scanners in most public research areas. last updated: aug 28, 2020 | topics: reading rooms using the library| views: 945, reading rooms, using the library, how can i obtain copies of books and other materials from the library of congress? does the library allow users to borrow books? last updated: aug 06, 2020 | topics: collections research using the library of congress| views: 913, collections, research, using the library of congress]