[you're up to date no new alerts, chat, play, workout, and share tv with friends. all on the big screen. bring your tv to life in a whole new way with the smart camera tailor-made for sky glass. easy., fancy a chat? call in high quality on your big screen. lose pesky background sounds with noise cancelling. walk around the room and you’ll be kept in shot. now you’re talking., watch the best shows and biggest matches with your mates. you’ll see them on screen and can chat about all the action together too. tv’s better together., have fun with your family on your big screen. link up with other households too. chop the air with your hands. bust a move with your feet. play games like never before., skeletal response technology analyses your posture. and a virtual personal trainer cheers you on. a fitness studio in any room. a workout on tv. lycra optional., connect the smart camera to sky glass with just one cable. and the technology is fully integrated, so everything works perfectly, seamlessly and effortlessly. enjoy., shut off the camera with a press of a button. when the light is on, so’s the camera. and when it’s off, it’s off. simple. you’re in control. always., the only tv with sky inside. so you can stream every channel, show and app over wifi. no dish. no box. no fuss., three simple sizes, a choice of five colours][bring your tv to life, ring, ring. tv calling., watch together. different homes., let the games begin, a virtual pt. on your tv., match made in heaven, your privacy. protected., it all starts with sky glass]smart camera in sky glass | sky.com[][skip to search, skip to alerts, skip to content, skip to footer, skip to the web assistant, watch cinema sports what to watch close watch menu, cinema, sports, what to watch, glass picture & sound sky inside tech specs switching to sky glass reviews close glass menu, picture & sound, sky inside, tech specs, switching to sky glass, reviews, sky q tv & broadband close sky q menu, tv & broadband, broadband tv & broadband broadband for business close broadband menu, tv & broadband, broadband for business, mobile phones tablets sim only brands accessories sim activation manage close mobile menu, phones, tablets, sim only, brands, accessories, sim activation, manage, business, deals, s43"small - 43" - 43", m55"medium - 55" - 55", l65"large - 65" - 65", ceramic white, dusky pink, racing green, ocean blue, anthracite black, privacy options, terms & conditions, privacy & cookies notice, accessibility, site map, contact us, complaints, sky group, store locator]