[the library of congress welcomes researchers to its reading rooms and research centers. whether you are a long-time researcher or are embarking on your first research project, the library’s reference staff are committed to making your visit a success. we’re excited to welcome you at one of our 17 reading rooms/research centers.  remember, the library of congress is your library! learn more about research and reference services., we encourage appointments at least 24 hours in advance, but walk in appointments are welcome. we reserve a small number of seats for optional appointments. if the optional appointments are all booked, researchers may still utilize the reading room as walk-ins., the main reading room in the thomas jefferson building is the principal reference and book service point for the library's general collections. if this is your first time researching at the library or researching general topics, this is the place to start., make an appointment for the main reading room, view faqs or use our online form to ask a librarian for help., ask a librarian, the library of congress asks all visitors to follow our covid-19 health screening protocols, which are based on guidance from the centers for disease control and the office of the attending physician of the u.s. capitol. masks are optional in library facilities. wearing a mask continues to be a very effective personal protective measure to reduce the chance of infection. visitors are encouraged to wear a mask when it is not feasible to maintain six feet of separation for an extended period of time or whenever they feel more comfortable doing so. visitors should avoid close contact with others by staying six feet apart where possible., researchers must follow all washington, d.c. health and travel guidance requirements. out-of-area researchers should also review the centers for disease control and prevention’s travel guidance., researchers requiring an ada accommodation for their visit must make a request at least five business days before their planned appointment by contacting [email protected] or (202) 707-6024., researchers can also continue to access many library resources remotely through loc.gov, ask a librarian and congress.gov. the library’s research guides and story maps offer curated content for online research.][onsite researchers | research and reference services at the library, intro-text, planning a research visit, reading-rooms-list, onsite research at the library of congress, main reading room, all reading rooms and research centers, i, information, q, have a question? need assistance?, ada]research appointments - library of congress[optional, encouraged , we encourage appointments at least 24 hours in advance, but walk in appointments are welcome. we reserve a small number of seats for optional appointments. if the optional appointments are all booked, researchers may still utilize the reading room as walk-ins.][library of congress, research appointments, appointments are optional, but encouraged to serve you best, ensure collection material is accessible during your visit and optimize your time at the library., request a research appointment by clicking on the reading room you plan to visit below and completing an online form.  library staff will confirm the date and time of your scheduled appointment., you’ll need a reader’s card in order to access the reading rooms or use the collections.  get a new reader card, if you don’t have one, or renew your reader card, if yours is expired. pre-registration should be completed online. information, locations, and more on how and where to register., you can get started on your research from home by browsing our catalog, exploring our research guides, or through ask a librarian., african & middle eastern reading room, american folklife center, asian reading room, european reading room, geography & map reading room, hispanic reading room, law library of congress, manuscript reading room, moving image research center, performing arts reading room, prints & photographs reading room, rare book & special collections reading room, recorded sound research center, all reading rooms, main reading room (mrr), microform & electronic resources center (merc), science and business reference services, newspaper & current periodical reading room, frequently asked questions for researchers, hours of operation, maps/locations, accessing library of congress buildings, conduct and personal belongings restrictions, wireless access at the library of congress, library of congress research guides]