[inspiring exploration of our nation's past through digital access and engagement, the national archives catalog is going through some exciting changes! we need your help to make sure these changes are on the right track. we are looking for feedback from interested catalog users of all levels to help us create the next generation catalog. also we are seeking users and developers for input on the … continue reading help shape the future of the national archives catalog, today's post comes from jason clingerman, acting director of the digital engagement division at the national archives. last fall, nara launched the record group explorer (previous blog post here), nara’s first next-generation finding aid. i am pleased to announce today that we’ve launched the presidential library explorer - nara’s second next-generation finding aid, defined as … continue reading introducing the presidential library explorer, free pop-up display from the national archives: the national archives, in partnership with the women's suffrage centennial commission (wscc), is providing 2,500 free rightfully hers pop-up displays to cultural institutions nationwide in honor of the 100th anniversary of the 19th amendment and women's constitutional right to vote. the displays are free, easy to set up, … continue reading free pop-up display from the national archives, this post was written by pamela wright, chief innovation officer. with billions of pages of records, there’s no question that the holdings of the national archives are vast. the breadth can be intimidating to researchers and online users, especially first-time users, who may not have familiarity with the organization and management of archival material. one … continue reading nara’s record group explorer: a new path into nara’s holdings, today's post comes from jon fletcher, archives specialist (data standards) in the digital public access branch of the office of innovation. digital imaging lab, 12/2/2005 naid 66798226 a great deal of work goes into preparing digitized records for inclusion in the national archives catalog. each subsequent step along the lifecycle of digitized records is a … continue reading digitized records in the national archives catalog: how do they get there?, this post is from the september 5th issue of the national archives catalog newsletter. with more than 92 million pages of digitized records available to search in the national archives catalog, we are always working on ways to improve search results to better help you find what you’re looking for. that’s why we’re excited to … continue reading new search feature: optical character recognition (ocr), today’s post comes from suzanne isaacs, community manager, national archives catalog researcher reviewing records, 3/1968 national archives identifier  23855361 if you’ve ever searched in the catalog, you’re probably familiar with the refinements available with your search results in the left margin, e.g. refine by level of description, refine by type of materials, or refine by … continue reading refine your search by record group or collection, "oh yes, i knew john gordon, and his daddy too." - a comrade of john and charles gordon john gordon, later in life. national archives id 122162774 during the early nineteenth century, the tobacco industry in the upper south declined as the cotton industry in the deep south grew. to meet the growing demand for … continue reading john and charles gordon, a father and son in the 49th u.s. colored infantry regiment, if you are familiar with our citizen archivist program, you know that we encourage online volunteers to transcribe digitized historical records held in the national archives catalog. we often say that these transcriptions help unlock history by improving search results, readability, and access to historical records. so how exactly are your contributions unlocking history? a … continue reading transcriptions reveal life in the trenches, this asian pacific american history month, join archivists, historians, and the public for a wikipedia edit-a-thon on wednesday, may 8, 2019 from 10 am - 1:00 pm in the innovation hub at the national archives in  washington, dc. register for this free event on eventbrite. two of the nine american soldiers of japanese ancestry ... … continue reading asian pacific american heritage month wikipedia edit-a-thon on may 8, 2019, email, ][narations, help shape the future of the national archives catalog, introducing the presidential library explorer, free pop-up display from the national archives, nara’s record group explorer: a new path into nara’s holdings, digitized records in the national archives catalog: how do they get there?, new search feature: optical character recognition (ocr), refine your search by record group or collection, john and charles gordon, a father and son in the 49th u.s. colored infantry regiment, transcriptions reveal life in the trenches, asian pacific american heritage month wikipedia edit-a-thon on may 8, 2019, posts navigation, subscribe to email updates, archives, categories, tags, learn more, , , ]narations – inspiring exploration of our nation's past through digital access and engagement[][about narations, policies, accessibility, archives.gov, contact us, more blogs from the national archives, privacy policy]