[led by nemours children’s health, healthy kids, healthy future is a national effort to promote healthy eating and physical activity in child care. we partner with national and state organizations to embed best practices in early care and education (ece) settings and systems. nemours develops, implements, and shares resources for ece professionals to create healthier environments for young children. healthy kids, healthy future continues the momentum started by let’s move! child care launched in 2011 as part of former first lady michelle obama’s let’s move! initiative to prevent childhood obesity., promoting healthy habits today for a healthier tomorrow, access healthy eating and physical activity resources to train ece providers on best practices., get kids eating healthy and staying active in your ece program., explore tools to embed healthy eating and physical activity best practices into the systems that support ece professionals., hkhf technical assistance program, tap builds state and ece program capacity to embed healthy eating and physical activity best practices into ece settings and systems., read more, physical activity learning sessions (pals), pals is an out-of-the-box training for early care and education providers on physical activity., read more, nourishing preschoolers, nourishing preschoolers is an online course for early care and education (ece) professionals., read more, nourishing healthy eaters course, this interactive online course for ece professionals highlights the importance of nutrition in early childhood., read more, children spend many hours in early care and education (ece) settings. ece providers have an important role in influencing what children eat and how active they are throughout the day. let’s help kids develop healthy habits early. learn more about the 5 healthy goals to promote healthy growth and development., give kids daily opportunities to be active in safe spaces indoors and outdoors., serve fruits, vegetables, and other healthy options. healthy eating is essential for child development and long-term health., make water readily available. hydrating the body is important so children can play, explore and learn throughout the day., create a breastfeeding friendly child care program. learn more about the benefits of breastfeeding and how to support the feeding choices of all families., limit screen time in ece settings. staying active is a key for healthy development., copyright 2022 and privacy policy www.healthykidshealthyfuture.org][healthy kids, healthy future, resources for early care & education (ece) professionals, featured programs & resources, early care & education settings can build the foundation for healthy living, supporting outdoor learning environments, strong from the start, valbona’s family child care success, teaching adolescent parents to cook healthy]healthy kids, healthy future[hkhf technical assistance program, physical activity learning sessions (pals), nourishing preschoolers, nourishing healthy eaters course][home, trainers resources for training ece providers, ece providers best practices and resources, leaders opportunities to enhance healthy eating & physical activity, about us about, faqs, success stories from programs, family child care resources, success stories, en español, about, trainers, ece providers, leaders, en español]