[, , , ][]refdesk.com[][10 things you need to know about anthrax, 100 fantastic family health resources - "the following list of sites compiled by familynursepractitionerprograms.com is presented in no specific order. factors considered when including sites on this list of 100 included age of the site, update frequency, number of readers and subscribers, amount of informative family health posts, and search ranking. whether you’re a healthcare professional looking for great resources to recommend patients, or a parent interested in leading your family in a healthy lifestyle, these websites offer a wealth of great information.", 4cnas - "the online magazine for certified nursing assistants. free magazine for cnas. search cna training near you. get the latest cna news, free cna classes, articles and much more.", addiction campuses - addiction campuses provides the most comprehensive addiction treatment programs in the country., about kids health - site provides doctor-approved health information about children from before birth through adolescence with areas for kids, teens, and parents offering hundreds of in-depth articles and features., acsh - american council on science and health - health information reference page., adam.com - includes information on diseases, symptoms, therapies, tests, treatments, drugs, and news., addiction resource guide - directory of treatment programs, alcoholism, addictions substance abuse and chemical dependency., apps and resources related to #coronavirus and #covid19 - check out these resources and apps related to the coronavirus., aging parents and elder care - advice, comprehensive checklists, and links to key resources ... designed to make it easier for caregivers to quickly find the information they need ... and avoid missing things that are important in the care for their loved one., alcohol awareness, alcohol rehab help, aids resources - a multimedia aids and hiv information resource, addiction resources: using fmla to go to rehab - making the decision to go to rehab is not easy. considering all areas of life are affected, it may ease your mind to know that substance abuse treatment is included in the family medical leave act, and that, in many cases, your job will be protected while you recover., als association - also known as lou gehrig's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) is a disease in which degeneration of nerve cells that control the muscles leads to eventual paralysis., all about health news magazine - health news, facts, and columns from medical pros, allallergy.net - directory of links to allergies, asthma, and intolerance and related resources on the internet. the articles are organized by subjects and identified with content ratings, the target audience, and the type of originator. the databases are searchable by keywords or categories., allergy center: mayo clinic - this site produced the mayo clinic allergy center provides information about causes of allergies and asthma along with the latest news and research on treatment and prevention., al-anon and alateen - "al-anon members are people, just like you, who are worried about someone with a drinking problem.", always training - "fitness equipment reviews and guides", alzheimer research forum - a scientific knowledge base on alzheimer disease, with research news, expert commentaries, and databases for peer-reviewed articles, drugs, research reagents, grants, jobs, conferences, and more., american academy of allergy, asthma & immunology, american academy of ophthalmology - site provides the latest information and innovations about allergies and asthma. information on allergy specialists, diagnosis and treatment, and support organizations are available in the patient/public resource center menu., american academy of neurology - information on a variety of conditions and procedures., america's best hospitals - the annual edition of u.s. news "america's best hospitals.", american heart association, american hospital directory - this site provides on-line data for over 6,000 hospitals. the database of information is built from medicare claims data, cost reports, and other public use files obtained from the federal centers for medicare and medicaid services (cms, formerly hcfa). the directory also includes aha annual survey data licensed from health forum, an american hospital association company., american lung association - topics include asthma, tobacco control, emphysema, asbestos, radon, ozone., american medical association: doctor finder, aneurysm information project, angela batini audiologist - "our goal is to provide comprehensive hearing services to our community. call (530) 241-6656 for all your audiology needs.", anthrax - general information: center for diseases control, arc - national organization on mental retardation, the, arizona state university - health and wellness providers - "a wide variety of wellness apps and mobile health monitors are empowering individuals to monitor and analyze key health indicators like heart rate and activity and stress levels.", ask noah about: pregnancy, authority nutrition - "authority nutrition is a website that helps you make informed decisions about your health, based on the best scientific evidence available.", autism society of america (asa) - the official asa web site provides basic description of the disorder, its causes, diagnosis, and definitions of relevant terms., bcom - baylor college of medicine dept. of otorhinolaryngology and communicative sciences, body mass index calculator - for adults aged 20 years or older, bmi falls into one of these categories: underweight, normal, overweight, or obese. bmi is not the only indicator of health risk. bmi is just one of many factors related to developing a chronic disease (such as heart disease, cancer, or diabetes)., bpi medical supply - we carry the highest quality products from name brand manufacturers at the lowest possible price with a 100% money back satisfaction guarantee., blonz guide to nutrition, food science and helath, the, baldspot homepage, the, best doctors - worldwide healthcare services, bioweb - biorhythms on the web, bloodpressure.com - this site supplies information, tools, and resources to help individuals make the lifestyle changes needed to control their blood pressure., brainfacts.org - powered by the global neuroscience community and overseen by an editorial board of leading neuroscientists from around the world, brainfacts.org shares the stories of scientific discovery and the knowledge they reveal. unraveling the mysteries of the brain has the potential to impact every aspect of human experience and civilization., betty ford center - alcohol and drug dependency treatment services., body fat percentage calculator - "an informative site on body fat percentage and how to calculate it.", dr. frank boehm's essays, breath of life - online exhibition at the national library of medicine examines the history of asthma, the experiences of people with asthma, and contemporary efforts to understand the disease., blue cares - blue cross home page, covid-19 drugs and vaccine tracker - here’s a guide to some of the most talked-about efforts to treat or prevent coronavirus infection, with details on the science, history, and timeline for each endeavor., cdc national aids clearinghouse, cdc diabetes - features state contacts, articles, a diabetes fact sheet and an opportunity to ask about diabetes., cna practice test - free - "our health care needs more certified nursing assistants. get ready for your cna test using the same kind of questions you’ll be answering when you take the real written examination. more effective than traditional cna training programs!", cna resources - certified nursing assistant (cna) training and test resources. find free programs funded by the u.s. department of labor or state equivalent agencies. cna exam resources, including free practice tests and free supplemental training materials are offered., cna.plus - "prepare for your cna test for free - no registration required. click here to start your certified nursing assistant practice test now!", cnn 411 covid resource - share where you live for details on the covid-19 coronavirus response in your area., calculate your body mass index (bmi) - this site by the national heart, lung, and blood institute, allows you to calculate your body mass index (bmi). to calculate your body mass index at this site, insert your weight in pounds and select your height. click on the compute button to see your body mass index. a bmi of 25 to 29.9 is considered overweight and one 30 or above is considered obese. site also provides bmi tables., cancernet - national cancer institute, cancer news on the net, cancer-pain.org - "connect to the latest and most accurate information on state-of-the-art management of cancer pain for patients, caregivers and healthcare professionals.", captioned media program - site provides captioned media on a free loan basis to deaf and hard of hearing persons, their families, teachers, and others who work with this population., cardiovascular institute of the south, carpal tunnel syndrome fact sheet - you're working at your desk, trying to ignore the tingling or numbness you've had for months in your hand and wrist. suddenly, a sharp, piercing pain shoots through the wrist and up your arm. just a passing cramp? more likely you have carpal tunnel syndrome, a painful progressive condition caused by compression of a key nerve in the wrist. this site by the national institute of neurological disorders and stroke, delivers a facts sheet on carpal tunnel syndrome., center for the advancement of health - "an independent nonprofit organization funded by foundations and public agencies to promote greater recognition of how psychological, social, behavioral, economic and environmental factors influence health and illness.", centers for disease control and prevention, center for food safety and applied nutrition, center for orthopaedics and sports medicine, children's medical center of dallas - as one of the country's most highly regarded pediatric facilities, children's offers diagnosis and treatment for a wide spectrum of childhood diseases and disorders., child health in the us, deepak chopra - "melding modern theories of quantum physics with the timeless wisdom of ancient cultures.", the common cold - this site provides a comprehensive, updated and referenced source of information on the common cold. the goal is to provide a framework for critical thinking which will allow informed decisions about medical care for the common cold., conference alert: academic conferences worldwide - "enjoy free conference alerts in india and worldwide from us. track all important engineering, medical and academic conferences of 2016 and 2017 with conference alerts.", consumer medhelp - home of consumer-oriented medical products, publications, & services, consumersafetey.org - "we provide consumers with the information to lead safe, healthy and happy lives.", cyberpump, covid tracking project - every day, our volunteers compile the latest numbers on tests, confirmed cases, hospitalizations, and patient outcomes from every us state and territory., cyberspace telemedical office, covid-19 sick map - world map showing countries with covid-19 cases., dsapinstitute.org - "dsap is a rare skin disease with no cure. dsapinstitute.org provides tips, tricks and inspiration for those who suffer with the disease on how to live as normally as possible.", dosimetry badge - we make radiation badges a simple task while providing excellent customer service., dead runner's society, dental related resources, dentist zone, the, dessert wizard - did that hunk of cherry cheesecake really blow your diet? how many extra miles do you have to run? forget the guesswork and the guilt: the dessert wizard reduces it to a science by calculating for you., doctor directory, doctors without boarders -"doctors without borders (msf) treats people where the need is greatest. we are an international medical humanitarian organization. we help people threatened by violence, neglect, natural disasters, epidemics and health emergencies.", dole 5 a day, down syndrome: health issues, dream anatomy - national library of medicine exhibit showing off the anatomical imagination in some of its most astonishing incarnations, from 1500 to the present., dr. ruth's sexnet, drug abuse in middle schools - "as a parent you hope that you raised your child right, educating them on the dangers of drug and alcohol abuse. this is really all we can do as parents, are children are growing into young adults, starting to lead their own lives as we slowly lose the childhood control we once had. we hope for honesty from our child and always remind them of the important things in their young lives.", drugs.com - "prescription drug information and news for professionals and consumers. search our drug database for comprehensive prescription and patient information on 24,000 drugs online.", drugsdb.com - "the internet drugs side effects database. drugsdb.com provides consumer health information on the side effects that typically arise from the use of the most common prescription and over the counter drugs and medications.", duke university diet and fitness center, ebola fact sheet - center for disease control and prevention, ecureme - healthcare for medical diseases, drugs, and treatments., edmund's home page, er inspector - "to get the best care possible, your choice of emergency room matters. look up hospitals ahead of time so you can evaluate where to go in an emergency. get data on hospital quality measures, such as wait times, patient ratings and citations for emergency room violations.", emt classes and training - "find out details on emergency medical technician training, paramedic schools, certification process, exams, sample test questions, practice tests, jobs, and emt salary in the us.", environmental diseases from a to z - this presentation provides basic information on environmental diseases. it's written for the middle and high school student and includes pronunciation. the site also provides factsheets, pamphlets, a questions and answers section, and an extensive library of resources on the topic., everyday health - "everyday health inspires and empowers people to live their healthiest lives, every day, through trusted, medically reviewed information and expert health advice", eskeletons project, the - provides valuable anatomical information to medical students and zoologists . besides offering a complete human skeleton (that rotates), the eskeletons project lets you investigate the difference between human and baboon skeletons., find a top doc - provides a searchable database of over 2 mil healthcare providers for patients to find a doctor in their area., factsheet: influenza (flu) - influenza, also known as the flu, is a contagious disease that is caused by the influenza virus. it attacks the respiratory tract in humans (nose, throat, and lungs)., family caregiver alliance - a source for long term care, resources and services for "caregivers of adults with alzheimer's disease, stroke, traumatic brain injury, parkinson's disease, als and related brain disorders." there are factsheets on a variety of diseases, diagnosis, and research. there are also statistics, a section on public policy issues, and links to related sites., familydoctor.org - health information for the whole family fromt the american academy of family physicians. all of the information is written and reviewed by physicians and patient education professionals. over 500 medical topics from abdominal pain to yeast infections, regularly reviewed and updated., fitness online - online resource for all things sports, fitness and nutrition. check in here for all the tools and information you need to live an active, healthy lifestyle., fitness partner connection jumpsite, fitness zone, the, flu shot finder - this site by the asthma and allergy foundation of america helps you locate by zip code where you can get a flu shot., food and nutrition information center - "the food and nutrition information center - a leader in food and human nutrition information dissemination since 1971 - provides credible, accurate, and practical resources for nutrition and health professionals, educators, government personnel and consumers.", free medical journals - site is dedicated to the promotion of free access to medical journals over the internet., genbank - nih's genetic sequence database, generic drug information - this site by the u.s. food and drug admin. - center for drug evaluation provide information on generic drugs., genetics home reference - welcome to the genetics home reference, the national library of medicine's web site for consumer information about genetic conditions and the genes responsible for those conditions., gray's anatomy of the human body - site features 1,247 vibrant engraving from the classic 1918 publication, as well as a subject index with 13,000 entries ranging from the antrum of highmore to the zonule of zinn., growth charts - from the centers for disease control, pediatric growth charts for infants, children, and adolescents in the united states., growth house, inc. - international directory of the "best of the net" sites related to terminal illness, hospice and home care, suicide, death with dignity, and related topics, guidelines for the surveillance and control of anthrax in humans and animals: who health organization, health.com - "health.com delivers relevant information in clear, jargon-free language that puts health into context in peoples' lives. through medical content, insights from experts and real people, and breaking news, they answer: how it happened, what it feels like, what you can do about it, and why it matters.", hand and wrist institute, the - "the hand and wrist institute is one of the texas region’s leading medical practices dedicated solely to the diagnosis, treatment and care of hand, wrist and upper extremity injuries, deformities and disorders.", henry j. kaiser family foundation: global health policy - kaiser is a non-profit organization focusing on national health issues, as well as the u.s. role in global health policy. unlike grant-making foundations, kaiser develops and runs its own policy analysis, journalism and communications programs, sometimes in partnership with major news organizations., headlice.org - covers various treatments, preventative measures, and diagnosis of head lice. also has current news and developments relating to lice, information on the biology of the louse, information on scabies, a discussion of lindane, and much more., healthadministrationdegrees.com - "healthadministrationdegrees.com is a comprehensive directory of health care administration programs and schools. you can search by program or state.", healthierus.gov - see more at: http://onlinenursing.regiscollege.edu/resources/mha/infographics/improving-patient-care-through-clinical-integration/#sthash.38qtqs6q.dpuf., how caffeine works - around 90 percent of americans consume caffeine in one form or another every single day. more than half of all american adults consume more than 300 milligrams of caffeine every day, making it america's most popular drug by far. in this howstuffworks article, you will learn all about caffeine., healthgrades.com - savvy site that provides information to consumers that helps them select the best quality providers of medical care. you'll find info on over 5,000 hospitals, 600,000 physicians and numerous health plans., healthline - "trusted medical information to encourage healthy living. enjoy free health tools and view detailed doctor-reviewed information about diseases, medical symptoms, treatments, drugs, and nutrition.", health links - courtesy of yahoo, health status - basic health calculators, calories, bmi, smoking costs, as well as the leading causes of death. additionally, you may take a free health risk assessment, which based on your areas of risk and responses will generate a personalized report and links to other web resources., health world online - a resource for health information, blending natural, alternative, and conventional health information., help when you need it - "whether you are looking for food pantries, stores that accept food stamps, assisted living facilities, domestic violence shelters, homeless shelters, hospitals, mental health treatment, substance abuse treatment, free clinics, v.a. facilities, women's clinics, legal assistance or financial assistance, they have over 350,000 listings of both private and public resources near you that are ready to help.", heart, the - a virtual tour by franklin institute of science, healthline: body maps - "learn about human anatomy, including organs, facts, and more with human body maps, a free interactive tool. explore 3d models of all human body systems.", heart disease health channel - heart disease symptoms, treatment and prevention: doctor-reviewed information at healthline.com., heartland institute, the, healthy hearing - "read hearing aid clinic reviews for thousands of independent hearing centers in the us, plus updated news and information on hearing aids and hearing loss.", healthunify - "unifying health experts to give you precise fitness information.", hiv insite - information on treatment, policy, research, epidemiology, and prevention, how biological and chemical warfare works, how to avoid - "start avoiding things you don't want! here you can find solutions to your problems and challenges. from the most serious ones, like diseases, work problems, kids issues... to the lightest ones, as events and lifestyle tips.", human anatomy online - over one hundred illustrations of the human body with animations and thousands of descriptive links., human genome project, the - the human genome project (hgp) is an international research program designed to construct detailed genetic and physical maps of the human genome, to determine the complete nucleotide sequence of human dna, to localize the estimated 50,000-100,000 genes within the human genome, and to perform similar analyses on the genomes of several other organisms used extensively in research laboratories as model systems. this is the official site of the national human genome research institute of the national institutes of health., hyperdoc, healthfinder: your guide to reliable health information - healthfinder is a free portal to reliable health information, developed by the u.s. department of health and human services. the site provides an easy-to-use, searchable index of carefully reviewed health information from over 1,500 government agencies, nonprofit organizations, and universities., in2u health and wellness - "our luxurious bali health retreats are individually tailored to improve your health and wellness. call +6281239316422. get our good health guide free here.", importance of early intervention for children with autism, the - "the importance of early intervention for children with autism. a child's early years are often considered the most vital. aptly called the formative years, this period is when the child learns most basic cognitive and mobile.", improving patient safety - "how nurses are working to improve patient safety and community health.", improving patient care through clinical integration, independent living usa - complete website of disability, and medical conditions. this site is a resource for empowering people to live independently., intelihealth - comprehensive collection of consumer health information from johns hopkins., internet fitness resource, internet health resources, is it bad for you? - "the leading source for getting all of your 'is it bad for you' questions answered, backed by our team of board certified medical doctors & nutritionists.", internet stroke center - a web resource for information about stroke care and research., ivanhoe news: medical breakthroughs - highlights three news reports each week on groundbreaking medical procedures and discoveries., improving patient care through clinical integration - if you just look at the numbers, it can be overwhelming. obesity is epidemic in the united states. in recent years, diabetes rates among people ages 30 to 39 rose by 70%. about 46.5 million adults in the united states smoke cigarettes, even though this single behavior will result in disability and premature death for half of them. more than 60% of american adults do not get enough physical activity, and more than 25% are not active at all. this site is a source of credible, accurate information to help americans choose to live healthier lives., joslin diabetes center - news alerts and announcements, a catalogue of publications, and discussion groups enlarge the sense of online community here., junk science- examines questionable "scientific developments", focusing on the public health research arena., kidshealth.org - site provides doctor-approved health information about children from before birth through adolescence. created by the nemours foundation's center for children's health media, there are separate areas for kids, teens, and parents - each with its own design, age-appropriate content, and tone., laser eye surgery - if you're tired of wearing glasses or contact lenses, you may be considering lasik eye surgery - one of the newest procedures to correct vision problems. before you sign up for the surgery, get a clear picture of what you can expect. this u.s. national library of medicine site presents a laser eye surgery factsheet., learn cpr - explains how to do cardiopulmonary resuscitation on adults, children, and infants using illustrated diagrams. includes a quicktime video, cpr links, and facts about cpr. interesting questions about cpr are answered by the medical doctor who researched and designed the site., locatorplus - this is the web-based catalog that replaces the telnet-based online card catalog of the national library of medicine, the world's largest medical library. users can search to see if nlm owns a particular journal title, book, audiovisual, or report., long term care link - this site is designed to educate the public on long-term care, provide support and help to caregivers, and provide continuing education to care advisors and care providers., mioti - medical information on the internet., mental health: it's okay to get help - "to provide mental health services, support and information to the members of our central florida community.", medical news today - medical news today is a web-based outlet for medical news, targeted at both physicians and the general public., massachusetts physician profiles - a comprehensive look at over 27,000 physicians licensed to practice medicine in massachusetts., mayo clinic homepage, mayo clinic: symptom checker - "what's causing your foot pain? why does your child's throat hurt? and what should you do about it? use this guide to discover the most common causes of the most common symptoms.", medicaid resource book - this reference book describes four pivotal aspects of how the medicaid program operates -- who it covers, what it covers, how it is financed, and how it is administered. it was written to assist the public and policymakers in understanding the structure and operation of the medicaid program., medical matrix - guide to net medical resources, medicinenet, medical feild career - we are a free resource for aspiring healthcare workers of all types. we offer scholarships, rank healthcare educational institutions using our own methodology, provide in depth data/analysis and interviews and much much more., medicinenet medical dictionary, medicine online, medical world search - if medical resources are what you're looking for online this search engine should be right at the very top of your hotlist, medicare: the official u.s. government site for medicare information, medicare glossary - eligibility.com - "find out what different medicare terms mean with our free medicare glossary.", medexplorer - health/medical information center, medlineplus - "information pages are designed to direct you to resources containing information that will help you research your health questions.", medscape - medical news today is a web-based outlet for medical news, targeted at both physicians and the general public., medseek, medsite - database of healthcare related site on the internet, men's fitness online - guide to fitness, health, sports and oh so much more., mental health america - the nation’s leading community-based nonprofit dedicated to addressing the needs of those living with mental illness and promoting the overall mental health of all., merck manual home edition, the - the complete merck manual of medical information, home edition is available at this content-rich site., merck manual of geriatrics, the - site provides information on nursing care, pharmacy issues, discussions of the best drugs for the elderly. also included are chapters on dementia, alzheimer's disease, rehabilitation, respiratory failure, and managed care., mesothelioma hub - "mesothelioma hub is your ultimate source for the latest information about mesothelioma and other asbestos-related illnesses. our mission is to connect mesothelioma patients and their families with the educational, medical, and legal resources they need.", mesothelioma.com - "since 1996, mesothelioma.com has been dedicated to providing the latest medical information on mesothelioma, spreading awareness about the dangers of asbestos exposure and helping victims connect with legal resources.", mesothelioma.net - helping to bring you hope, faith, and financial help when navigating through mesothelioma., meydrech family home & herbal, modern healthcare, medpage today - medpagetoday is a trusted and reliable source for clinical and policy coverage that directly affects the lives and practices of health care professionals., mount sinai school of medicine, mr. long-term care - provides long term care news and information. includes resources for parkinson's, alzheimer's, heart disease, and other long term illnesses., muscle and fitness - not just muscle, not just fitness.both. includes audio clips of a celebrity interview, features on training, nutrition and sex, and muscle-aneous (their word) other things., museum of human disease, myheart.net - "get the latest on disease prevention, general health, diet, nutrition, and more from myheart's physician authors.", medlineplus: drugs, supplements, and herbal information - "learn about your prescription drugs and over-the-counter medicines. includes side effects, dosage, special precautions, and more.", musclewiki - "musclewiki allows you to click any part of the human body, then provides you with a list of exercises to workout said part. it also describes each exercise and shows you how to do it.", names project, the - aids quilt, national breast cancer coalition- a grassroots effort formed in 1991 with one mission: to eradicate breast cancer through action and advocacy., national cancer institute, national center for complementary and alternative medicine - site provides information about complementary and alternative medicine (cam) and the national center for complementary and alternative medicine (nccam). it is designed to give you a quick overview of nccam efforts to advance cam research., national center for human genome research, national center on sleep disorders research - offers information on sleep disorders and related resources for both the general public and the scientific community. patient and public information includes fact sheets, healthbeat radio news audio clips, public service announcements, an interactive quiz, and related resources., national coalition on health care - for america's health., national eye institute - this site by the national eye institute provides a wealth of health information of care and protection of your eyes, including: diseases and disorders, basic eye anatomy, eye care resources, and much more., npr: from camping to dining out: here's how experts rate the risks of 14 summer activities - the urge to get out and enjoy the summer is real. but what's safe? we asked a panel of infectious disease and public health experts to rate the risk of summer activities, from backyard gatherings to a day at the pool to sharing a vacation house with another household. here is what you need to know., national headache foundation - this web site discusses a broad range of headache symptoms, medications, and treatments in an effort to inform and educate readers and it is not meant to substitute your doctor's advice., national institute of health, national kidney foundation, national library of medicine, national network for immunization information - site provides the best possible science-based information to everyone who needs to know the facts about immunization., national physique committee, nephron information center, the, netwellness - the value of consumer health information on the web increases a good bit with the addition of netwellness. developed by the university of cincinnati medical center and other well-regarded partners, the site not only offers info on various health topics but also a helpful "ask an expert" section., new england journal of medicine - the online version of the weekly medical journal., obgyn.net - the universe of women's health, official mad cow disease - 7,021+ articles on mad cow and new variantcreutzfeldt-jakob disease, prions, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, scrapie, bse, cjd, cwd, tme, and tse., office of the u.s. surgeon general - the nation's leading spokesman on matters of public health., online medical symptom checker - need information as you determine what to do about your symptoms? get help figuring them out by answering a series of questions. to get started, click on male or female, regardless of age, then the part of the body that is troubling you., ounce of prevention: keeps the germs away - scientists at the center for disease control and prevention have identified some simple things you and your family can do to prevent getting infectious diseases. but first, you may be wondering, what are infectious diseases? learn them at this informative site., pharmacy - www virtual library, pharmweb - database of information on the web for patients and health professionals, pollen.com - click on the u.s. map or enter your zip code to see pollen alerts for your area, the predominant type of pollen, and a four-day forecast based on 1,470 biological and meterorological factors., prescriber's digital reference - "drug information guide and health resources for consumers from the publishers of the physicians' desk reference. information on interactions, side effects, symptoms, treatment, screening, approvals, and more.", post-polio-med - a forum for questions and answers to and from post-polio syndrome researchers, physicians and other post-polio syndrome medical professionals, polio survivors, family, friends, students and others who are interested in post- polio syndrome., pritikin longevity center, prostate cancer - what you need to know - this national cancer institute site contains important information about cancer of the prostate. prostate cancer is the most common type of cancer in men in the united states (other than skin cancer). of all the men who are diagnosed with cancer each year, more than one-fourth have prostate cancer., psychology today: mindfulness - "mindfulness is a state of active, open attention on the present. when you're mindful, you observe your thoughts and feelings from a distance, without judging them good or bad. instead of letting your life pass you by, mindfulness means living in the moment and awakening to experience.", quackwatch - site's purpose is to combat health-related frauds, myths, fads, and fallacies., redorbit - "health. to uber or not to uber? how much is an ambulance ride. read more. redorbit.com is committed to providing stimulating, original content and presentation, with over 2,000,000 pages covering the vast ideological spectrums of space, science, health, and technology.", radiomd: stay well - "radiomd.com is a 'talking' health information source. we provide vital health and wellness content in spoken word form. produced in a talk radio, easy to listen to conversational style, our shows feature top guests and experts in the world of health and medicine to help you understand every day health issues as well as complex medical conditions. our focus is on staying healthy - staying strong - living a more happy and healthful life to be and feel your best.", rankmedical.com - "rankmedical.com is the world's largest medical listing marketplace for hospital or private practices. we have hundreds of thousands of satisfied customers from all over the world. we connect over 1 million physicians and hospitals globally from over 100 countries & regions. through our website, physicians / private practices can list their expertise / profession / specialty in areas such as dental, heart, pediatrics and all other medical areas right through to human medical and the sciences. the listing average the first time extremely cost effective for small businesses.", rating america's nursing homes - this site includes a searchable database of patient care quality ratings of 16,000 nursing homes in the u.s. also included are tips on choosing a nursing home and resources on the web to learn more about nursing home care., recall guide: fda prescription drug recalls - "recall guide is the most effective, easiest to use medication tracking platform on the market. best of all, it's free! keep track of your medications, and learn about important recalls and prescription information that may directly affect you.", the role of school counselors in school safety - school counselors play a critical role in changing the bullying statistics and children’s perceptions of their academic setting., redflagsweekly.com - "the mission of redflagsweekly.com is to probe health and medical scientific issues in a manner that one rarely encounters in mainstream news reports.", red gold: the epic story of blood - companion web site to the pbs special of the same name, this site delves into the facts and myths about human blood and its impact on everything from religion and medicine to commerce and popular culture throughout history., reuters health information services, rxlist - "rxlist is an online medical resource dedicated to offering detailed and current pharmaceutical information on brand and generic drugs. founded by pharmacists in 1995, rxlist is the premier internet drug index resource.", rxlist - the internet drug index - includes brand and generic names and category (antiviral, antitussive, etc.) for everything from amoxicillin to maalox to zantac, safemedication.com - today‚s medications are more complex and powerful than ever before. this site helps you find information you need to use your medications safely and effectively., salt institute - to satisfy any salt craving., the science behind drug abuse - the national institute on drug abuse (nida), a component of the national institutes of heath (nih), created this web site to educate adolescents ages 11 through 15 (as well as their parents and teachers) on the science behind drug abuse. nida enlisted the help of teens in developing the site to ensure that the content addresses appropriate questions and timely concerns., scorecard: pollution rankings - this site allow you to search a zip code to learn about environmental issues in your community. the site ranks and compares the pollution situation in areas across the us and also profiles 6,800 chemicals, making it easy to find out where they are used and how hazardous they are., seeing, hearing, and smelling the world - this site by the howard hughes medical institute provides results of current biomedical research. included are guides on seeing, hearing, and smelling the world along with new findings that help scientists make sense of our senses., scott h. young: the complete guide to memory - "how does your memory work? how can you remember more? prevent forgetting? these questions lie at the heart of anything you'll ever learn, do or experience. your memory impacts everything you do, from how well you'll do in school, your career, life and even your sense of self and happiness.", share guide, the - "a holistic health magazine focusing on alternative medicine, personal growth, and environmental awareness, with loads of great links. source: the internet drug side effects database - drugsdb.com http://www.drugsdb.com/#ixzz1pqdbnbvr content protected by dmca.com. if copied we require that the source information above be left intact. or else!", sleepnet - "one of sleepnet's goals is to link all the sleep information located on the internet. as new sites become available they will be linked here.", snoring and sleep apnea - this site presents facts about snoring including causes and treatment. forty-five percent of normal adults snore at least occasionally, and 25 percent are habitual snorers. problem snoring is more frequent in males and overweight persons, and it usually grows worse with age., spanking fit - a spanking new approach to fitness, health, etc. based on real science.", spine health - "in-depth information on back pain, neck pain, lower back pain, sciatica and more, including articles, videos, forums and physician interviews.", stanford university medical center, state health facts - site offers detailed profiles of each state's demographics, health needs indicators, health insurance coverage and medicaid, alongside comparisons with the united states as a whole., stop impaired driving resources - national highway traffic safety administration - "the impaired driving division at national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa) seeks to work cooperatively to save lives, prevent injuries, and reduce traffic-related healthcare and economic costs resulting from impaired driving (alcohol and other drugs).", symptom checker: everyday health - "the everyday health interactive symptom checker lets you check out your medical symptoms to find common causes, a possible diagnosis, and treatments that may help., tourette syndrome association (tsa) - official site of the tsa, a national organization dedicated to providing "accurate and up-to-date information about tourette syndrome, its treatment, relevant scientific research, and consumer services.", transweb - announcements, testimonials, reports, press releases, policy changes, an organ-donation faq, newsgroup postings, and other information for medical professionals, patients, and family members., the lonely hour - while technically about loneliness, the podcast is just as much about solitude and how certain thoughts and feelings take on a different—and often more heightened—effect when you’re by yourself., top nursing - top nursing is an array of nursing programs available in the united states, of both traditional and online preferences., u.s. dept. of health and human services, un index rates life - un ranks the wide disparities in well-being between rich and poor countries. the annual human development index, unveiled in bangkok by the united nations development program, takes into account life expectancy, literacy, school enrollment and per capita gross domestic product in 182 countries., ultra sound technician schools - provides free, thorough information on ultrasound and sonography career choices, and the degree programs that lead down each path., univ. of california san diego health guide - ucsd healthcare offers you concise information on more than 300 health topics, in six major topic areas, including child & adolescent health; women's health; senior's health; heart health - cardiology; general health; and cancer information., vaccine page, the - vaccine news & internet resource, vesalius - this beautiful resource offers detailed interactive models of human anatomy to the medical community, but it is fascinating and educational for a general audience as well., the virtual autopsy - this web site allows you to be the pathologist. you're presented with several case studies including symptoms, examination and test results, progression of the case and an "interactive cadaver.", virtual medical library - overlake hospital medical center, whole 30 - "the whole30 has been changing lives since 2009, when co-founder melissa hartwig urban blogged about a 30-day dietary experiment that transformed her health, habits, and emotional relationship with food., where covid-19 is spreading fastest - where the virus is spreading fastest., welch medical library - welch medical library johns hopkins univ., wiki loc: trails of the world - "wikiloc is a place to discover and share the best outdoor trails for hiking, cycling and many other activities", wellness - "research health and wellness topics, find doctors, dentists, chiropractors, nursing homes, hospitals, psychiatrists, psychologists, veterinarians, and more.", world federation of hemophilia, world health organization, world health report: shaping the future - this year's world health organization's report, 'shaping the future', shows how international action to tackle hiv/aids, polio, sars and noncommunicable diseases can help strengthen health systems and meet other major public health challenges., worldwide nurse, yahoo! health, ymca 360: on-demand videos - whether it's a current y favorite or something new to you, ymca 360 matches your lifestyle with a growing library of online videos for you and your family., your guide to lowering high blood pressure - this site by the national heart, lung, and blood institute is intended for people who are interested in learning more about preventing and controlling high blood pressure. based on national institute of health clinical guidelines and research studies, it provides up-to-date practical information on high blood pressure., your guide to weight loss - this site by webmd includes information about weight, diet, exercise, and weight loss medicine and surgery., yoursurgery.com - site offers multimedia tours of surgical procedures to educate patients. it has descriptions of operations, information about possible complications, postoperative care, and alternative surgical options.]