[the library of congress welcomes researchers to its reading rooms and research centers. appointments are optional, but encouraged to serve you best, ensure collection material is accessible during your visit and optimize your time at the library. the thomas jefferson building has reopened to visitors via timed, ticketed entry—learn how to obtain a timed-entry pass. virtual events and online services continue to be available., 17 answers, browse:, please provide as much detail as possible, including information on resources you have already consulted., this helps us determine what additional resources, collections, and/or services you might have available to you locally. , send written correspondence to:, african and middle eastern division library of congress 101 independence ave. se washington, d.c. 20540-4820][ask a librarian: african and middle eastern studies, , learn more, follow us, additional ways to contact us]ask a librarian: african and middle eastern studies - ask a librarian[optional, encouraged, warning:, send written correspondence to:][library of congress, ask a librarian, africa, middle east, browse:, all, groups africa, middle east american folklife asia business caribbean, iberia, latin america collections management division europe film, tv, video genealogy, local history general reference history, humanities, social sciences law loan & accounts manuscripts maps, geography national library service for the blind and print disabled newspapers, periodicals, comic books performing arts poetry, literature preservation prints and photographs rare books, special collections recorded sound, audio science, technical reports teacher resources veterans history, africa, middle east, american folklife, asia, business, caribbean, iberia, latin america, collections management division, europe, film, tv, video, genealogy, local history, general reference, history, humanities, social sciences, law, loan & accounts, manuscripts, maps, geography, national library service for the blind and print disabled, newspapers, periodicals, comic books, performing arts, poetry, literature, preservation, prints and photographs, rare books, special collections, recorded sound, audio, science, technical reports, teacher resources, veterans history, topics 3african and middle eastern reading room, 3african and middle eastern reading room, ask a specialist, browse frequently asked questions, what is the library's general reference correspondence policy? last updated: jun 19, 2020 | topics: correspondence policy| views: 2686, correspondence policy, ما هي سياسة المراسلات المرجعية العامة والإجابة على الاستفسارات للمكتبة ؟ last updated: dec 01, 2021 | views: 133, how do i obtain copies of materials in the library's collections? last updated: mar 08, 2021 | views: 76, kongre kütüphanesi yazışma politikası nedir? last updated: jan 07, 2021 | views: 34, i would like to find books published about cuisines of saudi arabia; cookbooks, spices, culinary heritige of the country. what would be the best way to search? last updated: dec 31, 2020 | topics: african and middle eastern reading room| views: 187, african and middle eastern reading room, what type of rare materials does the ethiopian/eritrean collection hold? last updated: oct 25, 2020 | views: 37, how extensive is the newspaper and serial collection in the ethiopian/eritrean collection? last updated: oct 25, 2020 | views: 27, what language materials are included in the ethiopian/eritrean collection? last updated: oct 25, 2020 | views: 36, where is the ethiopian collection located? last updated: oct 25, 2020 | views: 26, what is the thomas leiper kane collection? last updated: oct 25, 2020 | views: 76, how can i search for books in arabic in the catalog? last updated: aug 30, 2020 | topics: african and middle eastern reading room| views: 60, african and middle eastern reading room]