[vaccine guidance, don’t delay needed care. your safety is our top priority. already have an appointment? check updates to our visitor policies., learn about covid-19, symptoms, tests and treatments. find out about virus variants and research., some people continue to have symptoms after their initial recovery from covid-19. these health issues are sometimes called post-covid-19 conditions., mayo clinic is on the front line leading covid-19-focused research efforts. your gift today will help accelerate vaccine development, gene therapies and new treatments., a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. “mayo,” “mayo clinic,” “mayoclinic.org,” “mayo clinic healthy living,” and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research., © 1998-2022 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer). all rights reserved.][coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) from mayo clinic, find out everything you need to know about covid-19 vaccines for adults and kids., patient & visitor updates, about covid-19, post-covid-19 conditions, support covid-19 research at mayo clinic, additional resources, any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy below.]coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) from mayo clinic - mayo clinic[][vaccine guide home, why get vaccinated?, are the vaccines safe?, do vaccines protect against the variants?, should i get a vaccine if i‘ve had covid-19?, how do the vaccines compare?, u.s. covid-19 vaccine tracker: see your state‘s progress, history of infectious disease outbreaks and vaccines timeline, vaccination options at mayo clinic, about covid-19 home, what are the symptoms of covid-19?, what are the treatments for covid-19?, how can you prevent covid-19?, how can you prepare for the flu during covid-19?, u.s. covid-19 map: check cases and your local forecast, contact us, find a job, about mayo clinic, about this site, employees, site map, facebook, twitter, pinterest, youtube, terms and conditions, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices, notice of nondiscrimination]