[by mayo clinic staff, may 7, 2022, there are several ways you can look for vaccination providers near you in the united states., pfizer-biontech covid-19 booster vaccinations for those ages 12 to 17 are authorized and recommended for those five months out from their second vaccination. this authorization is in addition to moderna and pfizer-biontech boosters already available to all adults., read full details about this booster vaccination expansion at mayo clinic in rochester, minnesota., the food and drug administration (fda) allowed emergency use of the pfizer covid-19 vaccine for children ages 5 to 11 on nov. 3, 2021., with this authorization, mayo clinic encourages children ages 5 to 11 to be vaccinated for covid-19., additionally, the cdc now recommends that children ages 5 to 11 years who are moderately or severely immunosuppressed receive a third dose of the pfizer covid-19 vaccine 28 days after the last vaccine dose., a parent or guardian must make an appointment for children ages 5 to 11. children must be accompanied by a parent or guardian when they come for their vaccination appointments., parents or guardians can schedule their child's appointment to be vaccinated for covid-19 using their child's patient online services caregiver account or the mayo clinic app. if they don't have a caregiver account for their child and would like to set up one, they can call mayo clinic customer assistance at 877-858-0398., parents or guardians can also call one of the locations nearest them to schedule their child's appointment to be vaccinated for covid-19., read full details about child covid-19 vaccinations at mayo clinic in rochester, minnesota., the fda and the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) have authorized both pfizer and moderna covid-19 booster vaccines six months following completion of the initial covid-19 vaccination series for anyone age 18 or older. pfizer-biontech boosters may also be given to anyone ages 16 to 17., the johnson & johnson/janssen booster vaccine is recommended for people age 18 and older starting two months after completion of the primary janssen/johnson & johnson covid-19 vaccine., current recommendations are that the booster vaccine you receive be the same brand you received for your initial vaccine series. however, mayo clinic will follow the mix-and-match strategy approved by the fda when:, mayo clinic offers covid-19 booster vaccinations to all eligible people. if you are a mayo clinic patient and are 65 years old or older or received the johnson & johnson/janssen covid-19 vaccine, mayo clinic will contact you through patient online services or by letter asking you to schedule an appointment., if you meet these age and vaccination time interval guidelines, you can schedule your appointment through patient online services. you will not receive an email or letter asking you to schedule this appointment. for more information on how to schedule an appointment through patient online services, please view this video., after a full review of the scientific data, the fda has provided full approval for the pfizer-biontech vaccine for those 16 years of age and older. it is no longer under emergency use authorization for adults. it is also still available for those ages 12 to 16 under the emergency use authorization., some patients may still need their third dose of either the mrna covid-19 vaccines (pfizer or moderna). this third dose is available for patients who are moderately to severely immunocompromised., if you are eligible to receive an additional dose of covid-19 vaccine at mayo clinic and are a mayo clinic patient, you will receive a notification through patient online services or via the u.s. postal service if you do not have a patient online services account. you can schedule an appointment through patient online services on the web or through the mayo clinic app., patients age 5 and older are now eligible to be vaccinated., if you’re 13 or older, you can self-schedule a vaccination appointment now:, if you don't have a patient online services account, call mayo clinic customer assistance at 877-858-0398 (toll-free) between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. central time, monday through friday, to create your account. patients ages 13 through 18 must have a parent or guardian present during that phone call., a parent or guardian must schedule appointments for children ages 5 to 12. to schedule a vaccination appointment:, go to patient online services, you may also check the vaccinefinder page at the centers for disease control and prevention website, which lists vaccination information for many u.s. locations. if you find an earlier opportunity to be vaccinated through another provider, you should take it., all minnesotans are now eligible to receive a covid-19 vaccine. as mayo clinic attempts to meet the needs of all our patients and communities we serve, we encourage people from our minnesota community who are not mayo clinic patients to be vaccinated through public health, through the minnesota department of health website., check mn state guidelines, visit the mayo clinic health system vaccination information page for information on eligibility and scheduling an appointment., a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. “mayo,” “mayo clinic,” “mayoclinic.org,” “mayo clinic healthy living,” and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research., © 1998-2022 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer). all rights reserved.][covid-19 vaccine information for minnesota patients and residents, covid-19 vaccine information for minnesota patients and residents, in this section, covid-19 vaccination and booster options, covid-19 booster vaccinations now available for adults and those ages 12 to 17, covid-19 vaccinations for children ages 5 to 11, scheduling appointments, pfizer-biontech, moderna and johnson & johnson/janssen covid vaccine boosters available at mayo clinic, pfizer-biontech and moderna boosters, johnson & johnson/janssen booster, vaccine brands and booster vaccination, schedule an appointment, pfizer-biontech vaccine receives full approval from fda, third dose of pfizer or moderna vaccine for immunocompromised patients, for mayo clinic patients, not a mayo clinic patient?, mayo clinic health system patients, any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy below.]covid-19 vaccine information for minnesota patients and residents - mayo clinic[visit vaccines.gov, zip code, 438829, 800-232-0233, check your local pharmacy's website to see if vaccination appointments are available., contact your state health department][vaccine guide home, why get vaccinated?, are the vaccines safe?, do vaccines protect against the variants?, should i get a vaccine if i‘ve had covid-19?, how do the vaccines compare?, u.s. covid-19 vaccine tracker: see your state‘s progress, history of infectious disease outbreaks and vaccines timeline, vaccination options at mayo clinic, about covid-19 home, what are the symptoms of covid-19?, what are the treatments for covid-19?, how can you prevent covid-19?, how can you prepare for the flu during covid-19?, u.s. covid-19 map: check cases and your local forecast, ask your doctor, pharmacist or community health centers if they provide vaccines., visit vaccines.gov to find vaccination providers near you. in some states, information may be limited while more u. s. vaccination providers and pharmacies are being added. learn more about covid-19 vaccination locations on vaccines.gov., text your zip code to 438829 or call 800-232-0233 to find vaccine locations near you in the united states., check your local pharmacy's website to see if vaccination appointments are available. find out which pharmacies are participating in the federal retail pharmacy program., contact your state health department to find additional vaccination locations in the area., a provider or patient feels a different vaccine brand would be more appropriate, there are concerns about the side effect profile of a particular brand, the vaccine brand used for the initial vaccine series is not available, use your patient online services account to schedule an appointment online or through the mayo clinic app., create a patient online services caregiver account and schedule an appointment online or through the mayo clinic app. to do this, you’ll need your own patient online services account as well as your child’s mayo clinic number., contact us, find a job, about mayo clinic, about this site, employees, site map, facebook, twitter, pinterest, youtube, terms and conditions, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices, notice of nondiscrimination]