[grow your website with free tools trusted by 15 million sites., addthis is known for our beautifully simple share buttons. but we also offer a full suite of website tools like list builder, link promotion, and recommended posts, all for free!, the easiest way to spread your content online., build your audience, one fan at a time., create an enticing call to action and drive visitors to any page you want to promote., connect your email backend, collecting email addresses in a snap., engage readers with your most popular content catered to their interests., have you heard? addthis is the first and only third-party social sharing plugin available as an amp component!, compatible with the most popular cms apps including google amp & wordpress, use addthis ecommerce tools to reduce shopping cart abandonment, increase sales & capture leads!, segment your audience based on new vs. returning, devices, geo, & social sources to drive engagement., visit the addthis academy to learn tips & tricks from the pros to help drive traffic., opt out of targeted advertising, privacy terms of service, do not sell my personal information, copyright © , oracle and/or its affiliates. all rights reserved. oracle and java are registered trademarks of oracle and/or its affiliates. other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.][turn your visitors into engaged customers., free website tools, share buttons, follow buttons, link promotion, list building, related posts, now available on amp (accelerated mobile pages)!, amp share buttons include:, have questions? we have answers.]get more likes, shares and follows with smart website tools - addthis[][share-tab created with sketch. make it shareable, follow-tab created with sketch. create lifetime fans, link-promotion-tab created with sketch. increase traffic, list-building-tab created with sketch. grow your user base, related-posts-tab created with sketch. reduce bounce rate, 200+ smart-sorted sharing services, customized to match your brand, easy and quick installation, and more]