[the library of congress welcomes researchers to its reading rooms and research centers. appointments are optional, but encouraged to serve you best, ensure collection material is accessible during your visit and optimize your time at the library. the thomas jefferson building has reopened to visitors via timed, ticketed entry—learn how to obtain a timed-entry pass. virtual events and online services continue to be available., 14 answers, browse:, please provide as much detail as possible, including information on resources you have already consulted., this helps us determine what additional resources, collections, and/or services you might have available to you locally., if you are blind, have low vision, or have a disability that makes it difficult to read regular print, you may be eligible for the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls). nls has an extensive collection of audio and braille books that are instantly downloadable or can be mailed to patrons anywhere in the united states. for more information and to find out how to enroll, call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread., if you are blind, have low vision, or have a disability that makes it difficult to read regular print, you may be eligible for the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls). nls has an extensive collection of audio and braille books that are instantly downloadable or can be mailed to patrons anywhere in the united states. for more information and to find out how to enroll, call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread., if you are blind, have low vision, or have a disability that makes it difficult to read regular print, you may be eligible for the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls). nls has an extensive collection of audio and braille books that are instantly downloadable or can be mailed to patrons. for more information and to find out how to enroll, call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread., the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls) has the world’s largest collection of musical scores and music instructional and appreciation materials in braille, audio, and large print (sometimes known as bold note). if you are blind, have low vision, or have a disability that makes it difficult to read regular print, you may be eligible for nls. for more information and to find out how to enroll, call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread., you can contact the national library service for the blind and print disabled by calling 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visiting www.loc.gov/thatallmayread., in addition to serving people who are blind or have low vision, the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls) serves people who have disabilities, including dyslexia, that make it difficult to read regular print. the nls partner library in your state can give you more information. call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread to get their contact information., a publication by the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls), braille literacy: resources for learning and reading, lists resources to assist people who are interested in learning braille. the librarian of congress and the nls director authorize and issue certifications for braille transcribers and proofreaders. inquiries related to literary, mathematics and music braille transcribing and proofreading courses should be addressed to jennifer dunnam, manager of braille programs, at the national federation of the blind’s jernigan institute: call 612-767-5658 or email transcribers@nfb.org, your student might be eligible for an individual account with the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls), which has an extensive collection of books in braille and audio for all ages. your school also might be eligible for an institutional account with nls. the nls partner library in your state can give you more information. call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread to get their contact information., while the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls) does not provide textbooks, its reference section can help you find other organizations that do. you can contact the nls reference section via the main nls phone number: 1-800-424-8567, follow the prompts and press 4., the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls) has many resources on blindness, disabilities, and accessibility. you might start by visiting the resources page on the nls website. you also can contact the nls reference section via the main nls phone number: 1-800-424-8567, follow the prompts and press 4., send written correspondence to:, national library for the blind and print disabled library of congress washington, d.c.  20542-4962][ask a librarian: national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls), , learn more, follow us, additional ways to contact us]ask a librarian: national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls) - ask a librarian[optional, encouraged, warning:, send written correspondence to:][library of congress, ask a librarian, national library service for the blind and print disabled, browse:, all, groups africa, middle east american folklife asia business caribbean, iberia, latin america collections management division europe film, tv, video genealogy, local history general reference history, humanities, social sciences law loan & accounts manuscripts maps, geography national library service for the blind and print disabled newspapers, periodicals, comic books performing arts poetry, literature preservation prints and photographs rare books, special collections recorded sound, audio science, technical reports teacher resources veterans history, africa, middle east, american folklife, asia, business, caribbean, iberia, latin america, collections management division, europe, film, tv, video, genealogy, local history, general reference, history, humanities, social sciences, law, loan & accounts, manuscripts, maps, geography, national library service for the blind and print disabled, newspapers, periodicals, comic books, performing arts, poetry, literature, preservation, prints and photographs, rare books, special collections, recorded sound, audio, science, technical reports, teacher resources, veterans history, ask a specialist, browse frequently asked questions, what is the library's general reference correspondence policy? last updated: jun 19, 2020 | topics: correspondence policy| views: 2686, correspondence policy, what resources does the library offer for blind and disabled people? if you are blind, have low vision, or have a disability that makes it difficult to read regular print, you may be eligible for the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls). nls has an extensive collection of audio and braille books that are instantly downloadable or can be mailed to patrons anywhere in the united states. for more information and to find out how to enroll, call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread. last updated: jan 02, 2021 | views: 29, does the library of congress have audio books? if you are blind, have low vision, or have a disability that makes it difficult to read regular print, you may be eligible for the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls). nls has an extensive collection of audio and braille books that are instantly downloadable or can be mailed to patrons anywhere in the united states. for more information and to find out how to enroll, call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread. last updated: jan 02, 2021 | views: 283, does the library of congress have braille books? if you are blind, have low vision, or have a disability that makes it difficult to read regular print, you may be eligible for the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls). nls has an extensive collection of audio and braille books that are instantly downloadable or can be mailed to patrons. for more information and to find out how to enroll, call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread. last updated: jan 02, 2021 | views: 27, does the library have musical scores for people who are blind? the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls) has the world’s largest collection of musical scores and music instructional and appreciation materials in braille, audio, and large print (sometimes known as bold note). if you are blind, have low vision, or have a disability that makes it difficult to read regular print, you may be eligible for nls. for more information and to find out how to enroll, call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread. last updated: jan 02, 2021 | views: 24, how can i reach the library for the blind? you can contact the national library service for the blind and print disabled by calling 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visiting www.loc.gov/thatallmayread. last updated: jan 02, 2021 | views: 25, do you have services for people with dyslexia? in addition to serving people who are blind or have low vision, the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls) serves people who have disabilities, including dyslexia, that make it difficult to read regular print. the nls partner library in your state can give you more information. call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread to get their contact information. last updated: jan 02, 2021 | views: 67, do you have information on how people can learn braille? a publication by the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls), braille literacy: resources for learning and reading, lists resources to assist people who are interested in learning braille. the librarian of congress and the nls director authorize and issue certifications for braille transcribers and proofreaders. inquiries related to literary, mathematics and music braille transcribing and proofreading courses should be addressed to jennifer dunnam, manager of braille programs, at the national federation of the blind’s jernigan institute: call 612-767-5658 or email transcribers@nfb.org last updated: jan 02, 2021 | views: 30, i’m a teacher with a blind student in my class. does the library have books in braille or audio? your student might be eligible for an individual account with the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls), which has an extensive collection of books in braille and audio for all ages. your school also might be eligible for an institutional account with nls. the nls partner library in your state can give you more information. call 1-888-nls-read (1-888-657-7323) or visit www.loc.gov/thatallmayread to get their contact information. last updated: jan 02, 2021 | views: 20, how can i get textbooks in braille for a blind student? while the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls) does not provide textbooks, its reference section can help you find other organizations that do. you can contact the nls reference section via the main nls phone number: 1-800-424-8567, follow the prompts and press 4. last updated: jan 02, 2021 | views: 18, i’m looking for resources about blindness and accessibility. can the library help? the national library service for the blind and print disabled (nls) has many resources on blindness, disabilities, and accessibility. you might start by visiting the resources page on the nls website. you also can contact the nls reference section via the main nls phone number: 1-800-424-8567, follow the prompts and press 4. last updated: jan 02, 2021 | views: 22]