[is in compliance with the honcode, certificate validity: valid until apr 2022, www.mayoclinic.org visit website,  , does your site need to be reassessed?, file a complaint, honconduct636199, 01 mar 1997, valid until apr 2022, 24 may 2021, the content below is a sample of the content identified at a specific date by the honcode team that justifies the respect of the eight ethical principles., meet our medical editors  , (16 apr 2021) - link, the content, products and services offered herein are here to educate consumers on health care and medical issues that may affect their daily lives. nothing in the content, products or services should be considered, or used as a substitute for, medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. this site and its services do not constitute the practice of any medical, nursing or other professional health care advice, diagnosis or treatment.  , (16 apr 2021) - link, privacy policy  , (16 apr 2021) - link, the data displayed correspond to only one of the selected samples., by mayo clinic staff  , (16 apr 2021) - link, oct. 08, 2019  , (16 apr 2021) - link, this principle is not applicable to this site , contact form contact mayo clinic about problems, questions or comments.  , (16 apr 2021) - link,  , advertising and sponsorship revenue is used to support mayoclinic.org and mayo clinic's research and education programs.  , (16 apr 2021) - link, further information on advertising and sponsorship criteria can be found at the website., mayoclinic.org maintains total editorial independence from advertisers and sponsors. advertisers and sponsors have no influence over or input in our product development. they also have no influence over the listing of responses to search engine results. neither advertisers nor sponsors can buy priority listings on our search engine. we don't allow cobranding of our health information.  ,  , (16 apr 2021) - link, any paid advertising listings posted on search results or other pages of our site are identified as "ads by google."  , (16 apr 2021) - link, the content of this certificate has been collected by the hon foundation and may not be used without hon's express consent., the health on the net (hon) certificate guarantees that this website complies with the eight principles of the hon foundation's code of conduct at the date indicated above. the persons responsible for the site commit to maintaining its compliance with the honcode principles for the duration of the site's certification., however, despite the complaint system that has been put in place and the periodic review and automatic monitoring of certified sites to ensure maximum compliance with the honcode ethical principles, it is impossible to eliminate all risks of incoherence that may appear., under no circumstances shall the hon foundation and/or its partner(s) be held liable for any damages resulting from the use or the inability to use honcode-certified websites. similarly, the hon foundation and/or its partner(s) shall not be held liable for the content of such certified websites or any other website accessible via a hypertext link or through third-party information., those responsible for the certified website are responsible for the content of the website unless otherwise provided by law., request honcode certification!, search honcode-certified websites:,  , the honcode toolbar is easy to download and add to your web browser. it connects in real time to the hon server to verify the certification status of health and medical websites. it does not collect any personal information and contains no spyware or other hidden functions., download, youtube channel, youtube channel, share on   , copyright © 2020 health on the net foundation about the foundation | powered by hon.][certificate of compliance, mayoclinic.com, content identified by the honcode team, the honcode's significance, health website editors, do you have your own website?, health information you can trust!]honconduct636199 - mayoclinic.com - honcode certificate: the health website respects the eight honcode principles[24 may 2021][detailed version, significance, certification request, search certified websites, more info, contact hon, en, fr, de, sp, it, du, ru, hon.ch, detailed version, significance, certification request, search certified websites, more info]