[keepers of the story, stewards of the trail  sm, , "left pittsburgh this day at 11 ock with a party of 11 hands 7 of which are soldiers, a pilot and three young men on trial they having proposed to go with me throughout the voyage." —meriwether lewis, august 31, 1803, pittsburgh, pennsylvania august 7–10, 2022, view full-size calendar, "biddle the bear" poses in a dugout canoe at pompeys pillar. © 2017 kristopher k. townsend. used by permission., rules entry form, past winners, challenge yourself to a 5k as you walk, run, cycle, canoe, or crawl, whichever you desire., , registration, the lewis and clark trail heritage foundation (lcthf), portage route chapter, and montana river outfitters proudly offers this trip through the white cliffs along the lewis and clark national historic trail! includes nightly tent set up and breakdown, cot with air mattress, and three delicious meals prepared for you while you and your friends, old and new, paddle, hike, explore, read the historic journals, and enjoy pristine vistas as seen by lewis and clark., the canoe trip is from monday, july 11 to wednesday, july 13. on thursday, july 14, we will spend a half day at the lewis and clark interpretive center in great falls, and then travel to the first peoples buffalo jump. on friday, july 15, we will meet larry epstein at the two medicine fight site for a narrated tour you won’t want to miss! transportation for the canoe trip is included. a $500 non-refundable deposit is due with rsvp by may 31, 2022; the balance is due june 15, 2022. there will be limited availability so call today to reserve your spot! you will receive a tax-deductible donation receipt from the lcthf for a portion of this trip., photo by margaret gorski, 2021., your membership or donation supports the work we do and you also will receive a subscription to our prestigious journal, we proceeded on., join donate, pacific northwest region     california chapter     portage route chapter     jefferson river chapter     missouri-kansas riverbend chapter crimson bluffs chapter, more, a traveling exhibit from the lewis and clark trail heritage foundation, this traveling exhibit—available to libraries, museums, and visitor centers everywhere—uses large-scale reproductions of historic maps, photos, and explanatory text to show how america looked before the journey of lewis and clark, and what it looked like after., support this projectlearn more, over the past few years, lcthf and our chapters have taken some time during meetings to acknowledge the folks who lived on the land we are visiting. we have said our thanks to those that came before us, and appreciate their guidance and assistance when it comes to planning and preparing., we gratefully acknowledge native peoples who have lived on this land for millennia. their dedication to the land and their communities runs deep within the hearts of those past, present and future. this dedication encourages the lewis and clark trail heritage foundation to continue developing, among diverse communities, an understanding of and appreciation for the commitment of native peoples to this nation and the significance of the lewis and clark expedition., learn more at tribal relations., the sherman library includes more than 3,000 rare and modern books, pamphlets, journals and ephemera. the archive contains the papers of the lewis and clark trail heritage foundation, research materials gathered by scholars, and genealogical information on each of the corps of discovery members. view our online catalogs., library, we administer a variety of grant programs that help organizations promote or protect the lewis and clark trail., grants, our educational website provides the most comprehensive lewis and clark information on the web!, visit discover lewis & clark, we proceeded on, is our quarterly journal. its name derives from a phrase that appears repeatedly in the collective journals of the expedition. all issues one year or older are online along with bonus content., plan your next adventure along the historic lewis and clark trail. our travel pages include an interactive map and sites compiled region., the ohio river is now part of the national historic trail. this pdf brochure shows you the sites visited by lewis and clark on their journey between pittsburgh and st. louis in the fall of 1803., ohio brochure (pdf), © 2022 lcthf (a non-profit 501(c)(3) corporation) webmaster@lewisandclark.org][lewis and clark trail heritage foundation, white cliffs paddle and glamp, reimagining america: the maps of lewis and clark, land acknowledgement]lcthf home[][our foundation about us our journal library and archives grant programs awards program the orderly report our partners contact info, discover lewis & clark events reimagining america: maps we proceeded on journal our academic website tribal relations travel the trail, get involved calendar of events annual meetings we proceeded on discussions past events local chapters living historians wellness challenge, kids' corner the l&c story meet the members expedition events earn a patch teacher resources, regions/chapters, join, donate, january 1 to april 30, amateur photographers only, categories landscape people on the trail historic lewis and clark sites public lewis and clark art flora and fauna, landscape, people on the trail, historic lewis and clark sites, public lewis and clark art, flora and fauna, mother's day weekend, may 6-8, $20 fundraising fee, 11 to 15 july 2022, cost: $1,500 (members), $1,600 (nonmembers), meals, canoe and camping gear, historical interpretation included, reservations due may 31, 2022, 406-454-1234 or info@lewisandclark.org.]