[scroll down for search hints, search hints, - omit initial articles (a, an, the, el, la, das): king and i - type the entire title, or the first few words of the title, starting with the first word, - for personal names, type last name first name: hillerman tony - for corporate names, type in order: sony music entertainment; walt disney company for claimant names, go to other search options and select "name: claimant (klcn)" from the search by box. for personal names, type first name last name: james michener. for corporate names, type in order: metro goldwyn mayer for document names, go to other search options and select either "docs: party1 statement (k291)" or "docs: party2 (k292)", or "docs party1/2 (kpty)" from the search by box. for personal names, type first name last name: stephen king. for corporate names, type in order: warner brother pictures, - searches word(s) anywhere in the record - retrieves records with at least one of your search words - use + before words that must appear in every record retrieved - use ! before words that must not appear in any record retrieved - use ? for truncation: photo? finds photograph, photographic, photographer - use "" to surround exact phrases: "war of the worlds", - omit spaces and hyphens - registration numbers must be 12 characters long. type 2 letters followed by 10 digits, or 3 letters followed by 9 digits; add zeroes before the number: vau-598-764 is typed vau000598764, sr-320-918 is typed sr0000320918, - omit spaces and hyphens - the number after the "v" is always 4 digits; the number after the "p" or "d" is always 3 digits - v2606 p87 is typed v2606p087, - use index codes and boolean operators - use ? for truncation: photo? finds photograph, photographic, photographer - use "" to surround exact phrases: "war of the worlds", , contact us  |  request copies  |  get a search estimate  |  frequently asked questions (faqs) about copyright  |  copyright office home page  |  library of congress home page   ][public catalog]webvoyage[public catalog, search][works registered prior to 1978 may be found only in the copyright public records reading room., can't find what you're looking for? try our "other search options"., search terms are not case sensitive., search limits can be used with all "search by:" options.]