[  read latest edition of springynews: on the flip side,  email sign up, we help libraries thrive in a digital-first world by empowering librarians to shine and provide amazing service to users. curate resources and share knowledge, provide answers, engage your community, deepen relationships with users, analyze the use of library services - all with springshare's #librarianfirst software platform., curate and showcase library resources. create guides, build websites, a-z lists, or a staff intranet. embed library resources anywhere. and that's just a start! more >>, communication and social media for libraries. libchat, email ticketing, sms, twitter, etc. build a knowledge base & faqs. detailed reference stats. more >>, manage library hours, online event signups, room & equipment bookings, research consultations, etc. integrations with calendars, outlook, gcal, ical... more >>, an affordable tool to gather & analyze all library statistics. sushi harvesting, counter statistics, cross-dataset analytics, custom dashboard builders... more >>, customer relationship management + email marketing. your users are your most important asset. build and cultivate strong relationships with your community. more >>, move away from paper and spreadsheets. manage staff schedules, service point staffing, student-worker, and volunteer hours. powerful reporting to boot. more >>, create web forms, conduct surveys & solicit feedback. build interactive tutorials and test users' research skills with quizzes & assessments modules. more >>, a cost-effective solution for e-reserves, reading lists and document management. integrates with libguides, and with courseware via lti module. more >>, create a #librarianfirst, service-oriented platform customized for the needs of your library. see how it all fits together >>, we pride ourselves with providing the best-ever product support for our libraries. but don't take our word for it - just ask any of our clients. our 120,000+ strong user community is an amazingly helpful resource for collaboration and inspiration., you are in good company - 130,000 librarians at libraries large and small rely on springshare tools to deliver a great library experience to their users. discover how libraries just like yours are using the springshare platform., academic libraries », public libraries », special libraries », school libraries », public k-12 districts », consortiums », springshare is a phenomenal company with products and people that can’t be beat. with libguides cms and libcal we have everything we need – an amazing website, organized library guides, calendars for our hours and events, and more forms and feedback than we could ever use., joli mcclellandqueens university of charlotte, students, faculty, administrators, and the library staff rave about libguides, libcal, libanswers, and libinsight. why? because access to the library resources and library instruction has never been easier., francis kuykendallsouth arkansas community college, springshare's flexibility in meeting needs of a variety of populations and bridging service failure areas…plus being able to bet on and try ideas instantly, creates an agile environment., rhonda k. kitchensstate college of florida, in the past we had virtual reference services scattered through different systems. libanswers makes it easy by putting them all one place. even better, it allows us to collect and analyze data on all our reference services to inform decision-making., gabe gossettwestern washington university, i love libguides. it gives us a simple, customizable framework to build our research guides that doesn't take an experienced web designer to use. it makes it easy and efficient to build new guides and update old ones, and it's easy to train new librarians and staff to use., jason puckettgeorgia state university, these releases are on their way and will be live in all regions by the end of the day... read more, as 2021 draws to a close, we know that many of you are preparing... read more, offering a chat reference service is a great way to give real-time, personalized... read more, do you only want registered card holders or students/faculty to launch a libchat?... read more, we’re thrilled to bring you all new updates for fall! these features will be live by... read more, © 2007-2020 all rights reserved.][libguides / cms, libanswers +social, libcal, libinsight, libconnect, libstaffer, libwizard, e-reserves, legendary support & an amazing user community, trusted by 6,100+ libraries worldwide, news & events, our clients springshare]springshare - the saas platform for libraries and educational institutions[6,100, 82, 130,000, 20m+, joli mcclelland, francis kuykendall, rhonda k. kitchens, gabe gossett, jason puckett][, the platform platform overview libguides libguides cms libanswers +social libcal libinsight libconnect new libstaffer libwizard e-reserves & document mgmt., platform overview, libguides, libguides cms, libanswers +social, libcal, libinsight, libconnect new, libstaffer, libwizard, e-reserves & document mgmt., library type academic libraries public libraries special libraries school libraries public school districts consortia, academic libraries, public libraries, special libraries, school libraries, public school districts, consortia, why springshare, blog, about about us contact info careers @ springy, about us, contact info, careers @ springy, support documentation & springboards springyu live training training recordings newsletters & buzz pay invoice online, documentation & springboards, springyu, live training, training recordings, newsletters & buzz, pay invoice online, demo, cloud software for libraries librarian-first platform for a digital-first world turning librarians into rockstars in their communities! :), new from springshare! libcal: email marketing, pickup manager - schedule & communicate holds pickups, libcal interactive mapping, read latest edition of springynews: on the flip side, gdpr compliant, accessibility statement, privacy policy, contact]