[the "to the brink" app brings the national archives and its jfk library and museum exhibit to ipads. this free app contains many of the same photographs, documents, and recordings found in the exhibit — allowing people unable to visit the exhibit a chance to experience one of the most extraordinary moments in american history., version 1.1, • additional archive documents, including a psychiatric personality study of fidel castro prepared by the cia. • additional pages added to some existing documents. • improved interface for footnotes. • improved interactivity for outbound links. • modifications to document and gallery content order., 21 ratings, wow, what an awesome app and awesome experience. reading scans of formerly top secret memos and letters, listening to actual audio recordings of jfk's discussions with his team, it's hard to believe this is all even available to the public. i wasn't alive during this cuban missile crisis, but after reading/listening through this app, i have a new-found respect for everyone who experienced it back then. it was scary to me fifty years later; i cant imagine how scary it was back then. jfk's calmness under this unbelievable pressure just boggles my mind. most people would have struck back at russia, which most likely would have led to nuclear war, but not jfk. despite his advisors calling for war, he stayed cool and may have saved the planet., great use of technology to present a significant moment in american history. i got so engulfed, i finished it in what seemed like 30 minutes. due to the experience, it still gets five stars., it would be really great for it to have a single place for all documents and images., the developer, national archives and records administration, has not provided details about its privacy practices and handling of data to apple. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the developer will be required to provide privacy details when they submit their next app update., english, french verbs conjugations - free app made by teachers, trivial ap us history, histomaster us: learning history of usa is fun with this app - game to play with united states of america quiz, sat writing & language practice tests, education walkthrough, satellite watcher][to the brink: jfk and the cuban missile crisis 4+, national archives and records administration, designed for ipad, ipad screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, phenomenal!, slick and informative, it's a invaluable and interesting content with great visuals, app privacy, no details provided, information, you might also like]‎to the brink: jfk and the cuban missile crisis on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 4.5 • 21 ratings, 4.5 • 21 ratings, free, free, , , , , , developer website, app support, , privacy policy, developer website, app support, , privacy policy]