[explore, the mission of hearst transportation is to provide clarity in a complex and rapidly advancing industry through solutions that are embedded in customer workflows and empower industry professionals to make timely business decisions with greater precision and authority. , explore careers with hearst transportation here., camp systems international is the premier aircraft health management and enterprise information systems provider in business aviation., black book powers the automotive industry with the most precise data and analytics in the market., motor information systems is the premier supplier of automotive repair data in the u.s. and canada., noregon systems, inc. is the leading connected vehicle solution provider to the medium and heavy-duty truck industry helping businesses to maximize vehicle health, safety and performance., leadership, more, , media contacts, , contact, , richard p. malloch, executive vice president for business media, hearst, download picture, download pdf bio, richard p. malloch is executive vice president for business media at hearst. he is a member of the hearst board of directors and serves on the subsidiary boards of fitch group and camp systems., malloch joined hearst in 1991 and has held a number of leadership positions across the company. he previously served as senior vice president of hearst and president of hearst business media, which delivers business data and software solutions to the financial, health and transportation industries worldwide., in the late 1990s, hearst sold its consumer book business (william morrow and avon books) to harpercollins. malloch looked to reinvest the proceeds from the sale and build a business information and software operating group. traditionally, hearst’s trade publishing was based on print products with significant revenue generated from advertising. malloch changed the strategy and business model, moving the group toward revenue generated from subscriptions and licensing fees., the business media companies have shown substantial growth in the past 20 years. internal growth and product enhancements have been coupled with approximately $10 billion of focused acquisitions. business media companies are now a major contributor to hearst’s performance and contribute approximately 40 percent of the company’s profits. key acquisitions for business media include fitch group, camp systems, homecare homebase, mcg health and zynx health., prior to joining hearst, malloch served as a principal in the new york office of morgan stanley & co., where he was involved in corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions. malloch has devoted most of his professional life to working with companies in the communications and technology industries. he was actively involved in expanding the morgan stanley media franchise to include cable television, cellular telephones and information technologies. malloch also helped to develop the media practice in europe and asia., malloch began his career as a member of the policy staff for the u.s. department of energy, under james schlesinger, in washington, d.c., thomas d. cross, vice president, hearst president, hearst transportation, download picture, download pdf bio, thomas d. cross is president of hearst transportation, which includes aviation and automotive data and software companies camp systems international, black book, motor information systems and noregon systems., cross has held a variety of leadership positions across hearst’s transportation businesses for nearly two decades, including serving as executive vice president of transportation, president of black book and president of motor information systems. he joined hearst after a long career at ford motor company, holding senior positions in sales, customer service, marketing research and advanced product planning., cross was inducted into the national independent automobile dealers association (niada) hall of fame in 2013 and the national auto auction association (naaa) hall of fame in 2018. he holds a master’s degree in business from the university of chicago’s booth school of business., the mission of hearst transportation is to provide clarity in a complex and rapidly advancing industry through solutions that are embedded in customer workflows and empower industry professionals to make timely business decisions with greater precision and authority., © 2022 hearst communications, inc. all rights reserved., privacy notice your california privacy rights terms of use][navigation, search, transportation, asset publisher, transportation, transportation, transportation, , transportation page description, transportation, asset publisher, connect to hearst]transportation | hearst[the mission of hearst transportation is to provide clarity in a complex and rapidly advancing industry through solutions that are embedded in customer workflows and empower industry professionals to make timely business decisions with greater precision and authority. , richard p. malloch, thomas d. cross][skip to content, about, #hearstlife #hearstlife hearst rise making a difference sustainability, #hearstlife, hearst rise, making a difference, sustainability, news, businesses broadcasting entertainment & syndication fitch group hearst health magazines newspapers real estate transportation ventures, broadcasting, entertainment & syndication, fitch group, hearst health, magazines, newspapers, real estate, transportation, ventures, careers, hearstlink, about, #hearstlife #hearstlife hearst rise making a difference sustainability, #hearstlife, hearst rise, making a difference, sustainability, news, businesses broadcasting entertainment & syndication fitch group hearst health magazines newspapers real estate transportation ventures, broadcasting, entertainment & syndication, fitch group, hearst health, magazines, newspapers, real estate, transportation, ventures, careers, hearstlink, , , , , , , , , , , , , , ]