[docsteach is the app for learning with documents, from the u.s. national archives. students can enter a classroom code to access and complete activities assigned to them, or choose from a selection of learning activities by historical era. the app works alongside the docsteach.org website, where educators can find or create primary source-based activities to share with students either on the website or on their ipads. for students: • complete activities assigned by your teacher using the classroom code provided. • or choose an era and challenge yourself with an activity. • inspect and analyze digitized primary sources in high resolution. • engage in activities that help you make sense of stories, events, and ideas of the past using historical documents from the holdings of the u.s. national archives. for educators: • create a classroom of engaging activities in your free account on the docsteach.org website, then share the classroom’s auto-generated code with your students to access on their ipads. • include your favorite activities created by the national archives or other educators. • design your own activities to share using the custom activity-creation tools: discussion topic, spotlight, zoom/crop, compare and contrast, white out/black out, finding a sequence, making connections, mapping history, seeing the big picture, weighing the evidence, and interpreting data. • learn more at docsteach.org/resources/app • register for a free account at docsteach.org docsteach is the online tool for teaching with documents from the u.s. national archives. it is a product of the national archives education division and made possible in part by the national archives foundation through the support of texas instruments, the william randolph hearst foundation, and capital one., version 3.1.1, update application details, 7 ratings, could be a great app, but it won't change orientation and it looks like it cuts off about 25% of the screen. at this point, it is a useless app. not functional for the classroom as is., i downloaded this app because i wanted to learn from original documents. i was very disappointed for a lot of reasons. first, the app makes very poor use of the features of the ipad. it looks like it was designed for a computer, then ported to this device. the operation is very sluggish, not even beginning to be smooth. i was very disappointed in the educational aspect of it also. there's no method of self-evaluation available in this app. when it was designed, i'm sure that teachers in the classroom for the primary target. the problem is they give users the belief that they can self-learn. this app looks like a wonderful example of work done by the low bidder., i love that this website is now available as an app. however, with 1/4 of the screen missing- i cannot fully experience the app. please correct this issue. also, the app does not orientate from landscape to portrait., the developer, national archives and records administration, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the developer does not collect any data from this app., privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, access njc, race to ratify, njc alert, hmh go, hmh fuse: algebra 1, hmh fuse: algebra 2, common core edition][national archives docsteach 4+, national archives and records administration, designed for ipad, ipad screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, can't see most of screen, not well done, a great need, but an emerging app with lots of bugs, app privacy, data not collected, information, you might also like]‎national archives docsteach on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 1.4 • 7 ratings, 1.4 • 7 ratings, free, free, , , , , app support, privacy policy, app support, privacy policy]