[find out about covid-19, covid-19 vaccines, and mayo clinic patient and visitor updates., we aren’t accepting online requests for covid-19 vaccination appointments at this time. find covid-19 vaccination information here., we'll ask for some basic information to assess your care needs., you can scan your insurance card or enter your details manually. questions about insurance?, pick the best time for our team to follow up with a call., we aren't accepting online requests for covid-19 vaccination appointments at this time. find covid-19 vaccination information here., while an online requestfor u.s. patients is the best way to reach us, you can call any location during operating hours. if this is an emergency, call 911 or your local emergency services., 800-446-2279 (toll-free) 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. mountain time, monday through friday, 904-953-0853 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. eastern time, monday through friday, 507-538-3270 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. central time, monday through friday, +44 (0) 207 871 2575 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. united kingdom time, monday through friday, appointment numbers for all locations, 855-mayo-kid (855-629-6543, toll-free) 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. central time, monday through friday, if you’re based outside of the u.s., or if your insurance is, use our international request to start a conversation with us., mayo clinic offers interpreter services to any patient at no additional cost. we also provide assistance with financial questions., for details about these services and more, visit our international services department., mayo clinic healthcare located in london offers world-class services in europe and connects you directly with mayo’s 4,000 specialists in the u.s., request an appointment at mayo clinic healthcare located in london ., see your records, manage your appointments and handle your bills when you sign in to patient online services., physicians may refer a patient or arrange a consultation by phone or use mayo clinic’s online services for referring physicians., you'll find answers to questions about the appointments process, scheduling, referrals and more., we're proud to work with hundreds of insurance companies as an in-network provider for millions of people., we've implemented strict safety protocols against covid-19 transmission and welcome both new and existing patients for virtual and in-person care., © 1998-2021 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer). all rights reserved., a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.org," "mayo clinic healthy living" and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research., any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy linked below.][covid-19: advice, updates and vaccine options, appointments at mayo clinic, tell us about your needs., u.s. patients, answer a few basic questions to get in touch with us., create your medical profile., have your insurance ready., schedule a phone call., contact us by phone., phoenix/scottsdale, arizona, jacksonville, florida, rochester, minnesota, london, united kingdom, mayo clinic health system, children's center, international patients, please start here., explore resources for international patients., visit mayo clinic’s front door in europe, related appointment resources, returning patients, patient referral for physicians, questions about appointments?, see a list of frequently asked questions, insurance resources, see mayo clinic's safety precautions in response to covid-19, are you requesting an appointment for the covid-19 vaccine?, mayo clinic is an equal opportunity employer and service provider. review our civil rights postings in any of these languages:, quick link - mayo footer]appointments at mayo clinic - mayo clinic[][english, español, português, العربية, 简体中文, phoenix/scottsdale, arizona 800-446-2279 (toll-free) 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. mountain time, monday through friday, jacksonville, florida 904-953-0853 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. eastern time, monday through friday, rochester, minnesota 507-538-3270 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. central time, monday through friday, london, united kingdom +44 (0) 207 871 2575 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. united kingdom time, monday through friday, mayo clinic health system appointment numbers for all locations, children's center 855-mayo-kid (855-629-6543, toll-free) 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. central time, monday through friday, returning patients see your records, manage your appointments and handle your bills when you sign in to patient online services., patient referral for physicians physicians may refer a patient or arrange a consultation by phone or use mayo clinic’s online services for referring physicians., see a list of frequently asked questions you'll find answers to questions about the appointments process, scheduling, referrals and more., insurance resources we're proud to work with hundreds of insurance companies as an in-network provider for millions of people., see mayo clinic's safety precautions in response to covid-19 we've implemented strict safety protocols against covid-19 transmission and welcome both new and existing patients for virtual and in-person care., federal civil rights postings in english, مشاركتي بالحقوق المدنية الاتحادية باللغة العربية, ogeysiisyda xuquuqaha madaniga ee federaalka, mensajes sobre los derechos civiles federales, contact us, find a job, about mayo clinic, about this site, employees, site map, terms and conditions, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices, notice of nondiscrimination]