[remembering captain mary therese klinker, usaf, among the records cared for by preservation programs in st. louis are those in the persons of exceptional prominence. these records are prepared by preservation staff, treated if needed, and digitized. these records tend to be in higher demand for reference requests, so digitization allows better preservation by offering a surrogate copy and decreasing handling of the records. among the records we have treated and digitized is that of captain mary therese klinker, united states air force. , indiana native capt. klinker joined the air force reserve in 1969 as a flight nurse, instructor, and flight examiner. in 1974, while assigned to clark air force base in the philippines, she volunteered to assist in the inaugural mission of operation babylift. the goal of this special mission, ordered by president gerald ford, was to evacuate thousands of orphaned babies from south vietnam to adoptive parents in the us as the vietnam war was ending.,  after the first plane took off carrying 314 persons and infants, there was an explosion and the cabin lost pressure. the pilots attempted to turn back, but crash landed short of the runway. 138 persons were killed in the crash. as documented in her personnel record, capt. klinker “was in the bottom of the aircraft, working with the war orphans right up to the moment of the crash.” first declared missing, capt. klinker’s remains were identified and confirmed several days later. , on this memorial day we honor captain klinker and all others who gave their lives in service of our country. we are honored to preserve their records of service and ensure for all future generations., short url, may 1st means its mayday! are you ready in case of a disaster? the national archives offers information on how you can take steps to limit damage before a disaster occurs and how to salvage damaged materials after a disaster has happened. check it out at: https://www.archives.gov/preservation/records-emergency, short url, preservation through poetry:, tape is evil, tape is evil, tape is bad tape makes preservation staff really really mad. scotch, masking, duct or the blue one used by a painter, none of these should be used; you’ll thank us later. tape is made of two parts: a carrier and the glue one will degrade over time, the other too. the carrier will dry out, crumble and crack, the adhesive will seep out or lose its tack. the glue could ooze onto the photos, you see or it could fuse the papers, we won’t get them free. normally tape would be used for attaching fragments and closing rips. but this is not the best archival practice, please take these tips. so what should be used instead, you ask? we have a couple options, depending on the task. first, we could mend it using a wheat starch paste, which is applied to an archival tissue, with ease, not haste. the tissue with paste is then laid over the fragment or tear, providing stabilization for the paper from handling and wear. second, if the page is torn or has fragments abound, we place them in a mylar sleeve, so later they can be found. the sleeve keeps the loose fragments together with the original sheet, without all the pieces, this page would be incomplete. the longevity of the papers and photos are what we guarantee, here in the st. louis preservation lab at the nprc., short url, alternative spring break in the conservation lab at archives ii, the conservation lab at archives ii recently hosted two alternative spring break interns. the interns worked on a rehousing project for lantern slides. guided by our photo conservators, they helped to treat, sleeve, and box lantern slides from the army air force. and as an added bonus they found some interesting images!, [rg 18 army air forces, lantern slides of aviation history, ca. 1903-1927], short url, oh, boy!, this baby book was found by a technician when they were routing a burned file to its requested agency. it seems that the soldier had lied about his age to get into the reserves, but never told his mother! the young man was admitted into the army, but when he was transferred to a farther base, the soldier’s mother found out and provided proof of his true age by submitting the my baby book, his original birth certificate, and even a birth announcement! the soldier was given a minority discharge and sent back home to his mother. this just goes to show, never try and lie to your mother!, short url, these parchment records are being treated for display in the public vaults exhibit at the national archives in washington, d.c.  parchment reacts to even slight changes in relative humidity by expanding or contracting, and inks on its surface can be damaged by this flexing. some of the iron gall ink used to write these documents was flaking and cracking. conservators consolidated the iron gall ink using gelatin applied with a very small brush, to re-adhere the ink to the parchment., [rg11, enrolled acts and resolutions of congress (1789 - 1823 segment), an act to regulate the item collection of the duties imposed by law on the tonnage of ships or vessels, and on goods, wares and merchandises imported into the united states.], short url, tape is evil—the saga continues, why is the tape being removed from the back of this map? as tape deteriorates, it often shrinks and pulls on the paper it is attached to. the images of the front of the map show where it is buckled and folded over and information is obscured. these areas correspond to the back of the map where there is tape. conservation staff removed this tape’s carrier using a warm air tool to soften the adhesive. the tool allows the warm air to be precisely targeted at the tape. the tears will be carefully realigned and mended with japanese paper and wheat starch paste so the map can be safely digitized., for more information on enumeration district maps:, https://unwritten-record.blogs.archives.gov/2016/06/08/snapshot-usa-1950-census-enumeration-district-maps/, short url, these documents belonged to army private first class wataru nakamura, a japanese american soldier who fought with the acclaimed 442nd regimental combat team during world war ii. nakamura enlisted in the army from camp rohwer, a japanese internment camp in arkansas. nakamura fought with distinction in world war ii, and later paid the ultimate sacrifice for his heroic efforts in korea. he was posthumously awarded the distinguished service medal for his bravery under fire., nakamura’s military personnel record is among those that were damaged and salvaged after the 1973 fire in st. louis. after the dirt and debris from the fire were cleaned from these documents, technicians placed these pages in protective polyester sleeves. not all burned damaged pages require sleeving. but these examples from nakamura’s file have sustained severe losses to the pages themselves, leaving fragile and ragged edges that need protection when handled so that further damage and loss is prevented., as we look back on the executive order that forced many japanese americans into internment camps, it is important to recognize the heroism and sacrifice given by servicemen like private wataru narkamura. rest in peace soldier., short url, oswald’s radio, when lee harvey oswald was arrested for the assassination of president kennedy, the contents of his house were removed by law enforcement. this radio, known as fbi exhibit a2, was one of the items seized. it was recently in the conservation lab for a new custom box that will permanently house it and associated items. the inner compartments are lined with ethafoam for cushioning, and the radio and its case can be safely removed using the included tabs and supports.rg 272, fbi exhibit a2, short url, sometimes when our preservation technicians are working through world war ii records, they come across newspaper clippings sent to the government from the families of the servicemen. keeping track of loved ones through newspaper articles was a common practice, and while many of these clippings were kept in scrapbooks by the families, some were sent to the military and placed in the personnel files., one newspaper clipping found last week left quite a few of us feeling heartbroken. these twin brothers, james a. norton and edward norton, were both bomber pilots that flew together on missions in europe. while coming back from a bombing mission in holland, the plane was presumably struck down, crashing into the north sea. james a. norton was killed and later found by german forces, but edward norton was never found. included in the images is the newspaper clipping of the twins, as well as an excerpt from a letter from their father to general “hap” arnold., unfortunately, newspapers of this era were made from lower quality materials which became acidic as it degraded over time. newspaper produced in the early twentieth century was made from wood pulp, a cheaper alternative to making paper rather than from cotton rags as was previously done. the wood pulp also contained lignin, which was beneficial to the living tree, but would give off acid as it deteriorated. to prevent damage to other documents in the record, the technician will separate the clippings from other papers to prevent the migration of acid, which will cause damage to the paper the clippings touch. in this case, the newspaper clipping was placed in a polyester sleeve in which users can easily view or photo copy the clipping. in other instances, an archive may select to place the acidic clippings into an acid-free paper sleeve, or even to photocopy the article on acid free paper to create a more permanent reproduction of the original., short url, today we remember the many artists who lost their lives during the aids pandemic. the work they left behind continues to inspire and move us., ..., early renaissance panels are full of jewel-like shades. in truth, these colors were hard-won. time-tested,..., the weekly squint— detail of pierre-jacques volaire’s scene from a shipwreck, on view in the huntington art gallery., caption: pierre-jacques..., “wash your mouth out by the door, the whole town is made of iron ore”, flatiron, nyc., (fuji x-t1), top, for the official source of information about the us national archives, please visit our homepage at www.archives.gov..][preservation at the national archives, about, things we like, the blue that changed art history]preservation at the national archives[effector theme][archive, rss, ask me anything, submit a post, #memorialday2017 #preservation #national archives #veterans, #memorialday2017, #preservation, #national archives, #veterans, 4 years ago, 107, permalink, #mayday #maydayprep, #mayday, #maydayprep, 5 years ago, 17, permalink, #preservationweek #preservation week #national preservation week #preservation #conservation, #preservationweek, #preservation week, #national preservation week, #preservation, #conservation, 5 years ago, 797, permalink, #nationalarchives #conservation #preservation #lanternslides #photoconservation, #nationalarchives, #conservation, #preservation, #lanternslides, #photoconservation, 5 years ago, 198, permalink, #nara #preservation #conservation, #nara, #preservation, #conservation, 5 years ago, 41, permalink, #national archives #preservation #conservaton #parchment #iron gall ink, #national archives, #preservation, #conservaton, #parchment, #iron gall ink, 5 years ago, 160, permalink, #national archives #preservation #conservation #maps #theunwrittenrecord, #national archives, #preservation, #conservation, #maps, #theunwrittenrecord, 5 years ago, 79, permalink, 5 years ago, 44, permalink, #national archives #preservation #conservation, #national archives, #preservation, #conservation, 5 years ago, 75, permalink, #nara #preservation #conservation #wwii history, #nara, #preservation, #conservation, #wwii history, 5 years ago, 47, permalink, comment policy, @@archivespres on twitter, facebook profile, usnatarchives on foursquare, photo via sfmoma today we remember the many artists who lost their lives during the aids pandemic. the work they left behind continues to inspire and move us. ... photo via sfmoma, photoset via thegetty the blue that changed art history early renaissance panels are full of jewel-like shades. in truth, these colors were hard-won. time-tested,... photoset via thegetty, photoset via huntingtonlibrary the weekly squint— detail of pierre-jacques volaire’s scene from a shipwreck, on view in the huntington art gallery. caption: pierre-jacques... photoset via huntingtonlibrary, photo via bagnostian “wash your mouth out by the door, the whole town is made of iron ore” flatiron, nyc. (fuji x-t1) photo via bagnostian, rss, random, archive, ask me anything, submit a post, mobile]