[a blog of the u.s. national archives, may 1–7, 2022, is public service recognition week, which honors the individuals who serve our nation as federal, state, county, and local government employees. today’s facial hair friday looks at the man who sponsored legislation establishing a merit-based system for hiring federal employees: senator george hunt pendleton. george h. pendleton. (national archives identifier 167250250) although president george washington … continue reading facial hair friday: george h. pendleton, congress passed and president franklin d. roosevelt signed into law the national archives act on june 19, 1934. not only did the legislation create the national archives as an agency to oversee all federal recordkeeping, it established the position of archivist of the united states. the archivist, who was to make $10,000 annually, was to … continue reading appointment of the first archivist of the united states, we are taking a look at past staff and their many contributions to the national archives throughout history. today’s staff spotlight is on marion tinling, an expert on shorthand, who worked for the national historical publications commission in the 1950s and early 1960s. marion tinling (née goble) was born on december 17, 1904, in queens, … continue reading historic staff spotlight: marion tinling, today’s post comes from lori norris, an archives technician at the national archives at college park. the polar expeditions records, which this post is based on, includes papers, journals, and artifacts from arctic and antarctic expeditions. held at the national archives at college park, these records were donated mostly from the explorers or their families. … continue reading mystery of the arctic ice: who was first to the north pole, on april 1, 2022, the national archives released the 1950 census. for more information and to view the census, visit the national archives website. the u.s. constitution requires that an enumeration be taken every 10 years to determine the size of the house of representatives. the constitution originally designated 65 members in the house but … continue reading the 1790 census and the first veto, today’s facial hair friday looks at the first president of what would become gallaudet university in washington dc: edward miner gallaudet. it features photographs from the mathew brady collection at the national archives. edward miner gallaudet was born on february 5, 1837, in hartford, connecticut. he was the youngest of eight children. his father, reverend … continue reading facial hair friday: edward miner gallaudet, we are taking a look at past staff and their many contributions to the national archives throughout history. today’s staff spotlight is on helen beach, who worked for the national archives from 1936 to her retirement in 1965 and developed her own cart, known as the "beach wagon."  frances helen beach was born on july … continue reading historic staff spotlight: helen beach, on april 1, 2022, the national archives will release the 1950 census. for more information on the records release, visit the national archives website. article i of the u.s. constitution provides that an enumeration be taken every 10 years, with the first federal population census taken in 1790. while the original intent of the census … continue reading public access to census records at the national archives, today’s post comes from thomas richardson, an expert archives technician at the national personnel records center (nprc) in st. louis, missouri.  not all service members in the united states armed forces serve in combat. in fact, fewer than 15 percent of enlisted personnel ever see combat or are assigned a combat role. how can one … continue reading contact, brawls, and chambering: the combat action ribbon, since the origin of our nation, women inventors have contributed innovations large and small to our society. for women's history month, today's facial hair friday post features a very specialized invention developed by a woman for use by men. before modern-day hipsters donned their flamboyant facial hair, large, extravagant mustaches were all the rage in … continue reading facial hair friday: the mustache spoon, email, ][pieces of history, facial hair friday: george h. pendleton, appointment of the first archivist of the united states, historic staff spotlight: marion tinling, mystery of the arctic ice: who was first to the north pole, the 1790 census and the first veto, facial hair friday: edward miner gallaudet, historic staff spotlight: helen beach, public access to census records at the national archives, contact, brawls, and chambering: the combat action ribbon, facial hair friday: the mustache spoon, posts navigation, subscribe to email updates, archives, categories, tags, learn more, , , ]pieces of history – a blog of the u.s. national archives[][about, about the bloggers, policies, accessibility, archives.gov, contact us, more blogs from the national archives, privacy policy]