[coronavirus, across the country, states are beginning to lift universal mask mandates, including in schools. however, covid-19 still poses a risk for many families, especially for children too young to be vaccinated. what is a parent to do?, dr. salwa sulieman, an infectious disease specialist at nemours children’s hospital, delaware and a mom of three suggests looking to the numbers to help you make a decision about whether to continue wearing a mask, despite the lifted mandates., “i base masking recommendations on what the numbers in the community are doing. i tend to think about incidence of covid-19 infection per 100,000 persons, which you can find on most state health department websites,” says dr. sulieman., dr. sulieman recommends considering optional masking when your state begins reporting an incidence rate of 50-100 cases per 100,000 persons. when your state gets to less than 10 per 100,000, there’s very little covid-19 infection in the community and masks can safely come off., another metric to reference is pcr positivity rates, which is the number of positive cases among those tested in a community or state. when the positivity rate is below 5%, optional masking is something to consider., as a parent, if your state or school district is already making masking optional, think about who is in your household and who is high risk, and look to those numbers to help your family make a decision about continuing to mask., for some families who have high-risk relatives or children with chronic conditions, the decision to keep wearing a mask is an easy one. but what can a parent do if their child is teased for continuing to wear a mask when most kids and teachers are no longer required to do so?, dr. zach radcliff, a pediatric psychologist at nemours children’s health, encourages an open dialogue with children to help them navigate that situation. encouraging them to express why they mask – it helps me keep other safe, i wear a mask because my brother is too young to be vaccinated, it protects my family – can allow them to respond to teasing and lessen the impact of others’ opinions on their well-being., remember that any kind of teasing, whether it’s about your child wearing a mask, wearing certain clothes, or having certain interests, is a form of bullying that should be addressed individually with your child and with teachers or administrators who can affect the environment where it’s happening., “start by talking to your child about the situation and the environment where the teasing is happening,” says dr. radcliff. “who is doing the teasing? is it a friend or someone your child doesn’t know? how much weight does that person’s opinion carry in the life of your child?”, once you figure out the impact that the teasing is having, help your child feel safe standing up for themselves or work with teachers or other families to create a comfortable space for your child. for example, children who are more extroverted or assertive may just need help putting their response into words. for children who are more introverted or anxious, dr. radcliff recommends helping them find safety in their environment., “i’ve had families talk to teachers about moving their child’s seat in a classroom. some have worked with other families and teachers to allow all the children choosing to mask to sit at a table together so they feel more comfortable and supported,” he said., at the end of the day, not everyone is an infectious disease expert (even though it feels like these days everyone has to be) or a child psychologist. when in doubt, trust the experts. nemours children’s health has great resources on covid-19 and nemours kidshealth.org is the most-searched site for information about pediatric health and development. their covid-19 articles are updated regularly and reviewed by doctors and they also have helpful information to address bullying and teasing., receive stories and resources like these in your inbox!, guest contributor, like and follow nemours on facebook, instagram, twitter, and linkedin., we’re on a journey to improve the health of children everywhere- from safe schools to supportive communities and healthy homes., coronavirus, the pandemic has affected our lives for almost a year and many of us have become used to wearing a mask and social distancing. we must keep doing everything we can, and that means staying six — not four — feet apart and wearing a mask properly at all times. we should also encourage others to do the same so we can eventually have a life without the fear of covid-19. the only way we can get through this is together, but six feet apart, of course!, coronavirus, kids wear a lot of things to stay safe at school … shoes to protect their feet, sunscreen to protect their skin on late summer days and a jacket to protect against the fall chill. this school year, wearing a face mask has been added to the list. wondering how you can help your child get used to wearing a mask? just follow these six tips! explain why kids and adults are wearing a mask. keep the explanation simple:  “i wear a mask to keep you safe. you wear a mask to keep me safe.” normalize wearing a mask by helping your child see other people are wearing masks too. play a game when you’re out: do you see a person with a green shirt wearing a mask? do you see a person with blue sneakers wearing a mask? be a good role model by wearing a mask whenever you […], coronavirus, sleep quality is central to our physical and emotional well-being. not getting enough sleep negatively influences physical health and performance, learning, development, and emotional regulation.  during quarantine, many kids – especially those with developmental concerns – have been thrown off their routines, and sleep has been impacted. if children are not sleeping well, they don’t think as well, learn as well, or behave as well. further, poor sleep quality makes children more vulnerable to anxiety and depression.  and anxiety is a major cause of sleeplessness. so it can become a vicious cycle. the bottom line is that the body needs to rest, rejuvenate and restore its physical and chemical properties in order to function well. prioritizing sleep quality is essential to health. it’s just as important as diet and exercise. give your family the opportunity to sleep by providing an environment and a bedtime routine that is sleep-promoting. keep the […], receive stories and resources like these in your inbox!, about nemours, when you have questions about your child’s health, you want answers you can trust. nemours children’s health system is here with those answers — and so much more., for decades, nemours has been home to some of the top doctors and specialists in their fields. now, we’re here to bring that caring and comprehensive expertise to you. count on us for up-to-date insights on important topics in kids’ health., navigate, © 2022 the nemours foundation.® nemours is a registered trademark of the nemours foundation.][to mask or not to mask? good question., look at the numbers, what if a child is worried about being teased?, subscribe to our blog, subscribe to our blog, topics, better health is a journey, better health is a journey, related articles, we’ll get through this together: wear your mask and stay apart, this year’s back-to-school fashion includes a face mask, the pandemic can disrupt a good night’s sleep too, subscribe to our blog, subscribe to our blog, topics, subscribe to our blog, topics]to mask or not to mask? good question. - nemours blog[to mask or not to mask? good question., “][, blog nemours blog, , , coronavirus, ages & stages, health issues, staying healthy, , , coronavirus, ages & stages, health issues, staying healthy, contact us, subscribe, nemours, , subscribe, topics ages & stages community connection coronavirus featured post health issues positive parenting services & specialties staying healthy uncategorized, ages & stages, community connection, coronavirus, featured post, health issues, positive parenting, services & specialties, staying healthy, uncategorized, topics ages & stages community connection coronavirus featured post health issues positive parenting services & specialties staying healthy uncategorized, ages & stages, community connection, coronavirus, featured post, health issues, positive parenting, services & specialties, staying healthy, uncategorized, all articles, contact us, privacy statement, terms & conditions, nemours.org, nemours kidshealth, topics ages & stages community connection coronavirus featured post health issues positive parenting services & specialties staying healthy uncategorized, ages & stages, community connection, coronavirus, featured post, health issues, positive parenting, services & specialties, staying healthy, uncategorized]