[about, learn about about the powerful, open source community platform., tags, we would like to help creators build their communities. if you are a creator building on the web, then you might be eligible for a free, hosted discourse community., a few of our teammates have (graciously) agreed to share a glimpse into their home workspaces, including the gear and elements of the space itself they love., did you know that you can make your existing (or brand new) discourse site into a microsoft windows store app? if you have a user base that mainly uses windows and will benefit from the deeper os integration, like being pinned to the taskbar or even autostarting on boot, or, in this post, we're wrapping up our getting started with discourse series. if you missed part one or part two, go back and watch those first. in this videojono bacon concludes the series with: an admin panel walkthroughhow to customize discoursereviewing essential metricsand more...ready to wrap up? congrats! you're, in this post, we're continuing our video series on getting started with discourse. if you missed it, check out part one first! what you'll learnin part two, jono bacon leads you through: starting discussionsthe basics of markdownbadgestrust levels...and more.ready? have any questions about the topics covered in this, if just getting the feel of using discourse for the first time, you might be wondering what's the best place to start. our friend jono bacon, a leading community manager and consultant, put together a three part video series to help you master the basics of using discourse to run, audience and community are similar enough they basically seem to be the same thing. in reality, this is quite far from the truth. in this article, we're going to dive into the definitions of audience and community, the differences between the two, and how building a community may be more, on the surface, a social network and an online community can appear very similar. they both bring people together to share and discuss in a digital context. but when you dig in, there are stark differences between these two. in this article, we'll unpack these distinctions, including: engagement vs connectionbroadcast, organization, while it may seem straightforward, is a crucial component of building a healthy community. how effectively your community is organized can affect just how much new and existing members engage with one another. in this article, we'll unpack five tips to help you start organizing your community effectively, including:, today we release discourse 2.8, building on discourse 2.7 from may 2021. for post 2.0 releases we’ve chosen a new set of codenames based on the history of human communication; this release is audion and represents the invention of radio 📻. different visual style for personal messagesin, building and running private communities is becoming a more important endeavor for creators, cohorts, coaches, companies, and more. people are looking for a safe space to connect with others online, and a private community is one way to accomplish that goal. you might be ready to start your journey on, discourse had a great year. we raised a $20 million series a investment and grew to 56 people... but we couldn’t have done it without you! and now, as we do at the end of every year, it’s time to give back. as an open source project ourselves,, what is a private community?a private community is similar to its counterpart, public online communities, in that it’s a place for a group of people to come together for a common purpose, interest, or vision – doing so via the internet. the major difference between a private and public, communities are living, breathing systems. they can either be growing, thriving, stale or dying, and this state of the community is defined by the community’s health. a healthy community is filled with growth. but how do you know what state your community is in? to figure this out, it’, a long standing feature request from our community is finally here! as of today, you are able to host a complete discourse instance in a $35 raspberry pi. you can go ahead and follow our official install guide, and it will work out of the box in any recent raspberry, an online community brings together people who wouldn’t normally connect with each other in the real world. businesses, creators, and brands alike are all realizing the power of creating community in the digital landscape. while it’s tempting to think communities are alike, not all look the same. there, the end of the year is a time full of celebrations. it’s also a great time to celebrate your community’s most impactful members and discussions. while digging up the data to find these users and topics can be time consuming, we’ve made it extremely simple with our, if you are concerned about how your community is performing in search engine results (seo), there are a number of questions to keep in mind when looking to optimize your community software of choice. we frequently get asked  questions in our support inboxes and in our public community about how, as part of our ongoing series of interviews with customers, our latest is with sarah gran, who manages everything about communications at let’s encrypt and internet security research group (isrg), let’s encrypt’s parent company. in this deep-dive, sarah shares how let’s encrypt has been able to, in many ways, our company seemed well-positioned for the covid-19 pandemic. we'd already been a 100% remote company, spread across many time zones and countries. we'd learned to use tools (like discourse!) asynchronously to communicate and work effectively. when push came to shove, though, it didn't help much. our employees, we are pleased to announce availability of all hosting tiers in our canadian datacentre! located in toronto, customers hosted here benefit from a configuration that stores and processes their data solely in canada. visit our pricing page and choose the "east ca" location to spin up a free trial in, helping people find your community takes time and patience. it also takes a little knowledge about search engines, how they work, and how people locate your community through them. in this article, we’re going to demystify the basics of seo and how you can optimize your community for discovery., for a fledgling community, facebook groups are often seen as the leading standard. they’re easy to access, come with a built-in audience, and require little to no knowledge to get started. but are facebook groups the only option? when might you need something a bit more powerful? in this, within complex applications and hosting environments, segfaults can manifest themselves in a myriad of weird and wonderful symptoms. for discourse the application, this may be a notification email failing to send, or an uploaded image failing to be optimized, or many other not-very-noticeable problems. in some cases, subtle bugs causing, so you’re interested in starting a community on the internet. great! it might seem like the best idea to just grab your nearest social software and start talking about your passion. that’s a great way to get yourself moving, but if you’re interested in building something sustainable,, new features, cutting-edge development, content is by-nc-sa, discourse logo and “discourse forum” ®, civilized discourse construction kit, inc., built with love, internet style | privacy information | copyright policy | status][blog, free discourse communities for creators, the home office desks of discourse, publish your community on the windows store, getting started with discourse - part 3: admin and analytics, getting started with discourse - part 2: discussions and trust levels, getting started with discourse - part 1: discourse setup, audience vs. community: what's the difference?, how social networks differ from communities, organizing your online community, discourse 2.8 released!, the eight best places to build a private community, discourse gives back: 2021 edition, private communities: what they are and how to build one, improve your community experience using a diy community health check, discourse on a raspberry pi, the six types of online communities (with examples of each), celebrate your community with a year in review, handling seo for discourse communities, how let’s encrypt uses community to provide free support to over 40% of the world’s internet, building an emotionally sustainable company, discourse official hosting now available in canada, eight tips to improve your community's seo, facebook groups: a guide on when to use them and when to seek alternatives, who's at fault: tracking down segfaults in production, a simple, 5-step strategy to kickstart your new community]blog | discourse[][about what is it? who we are customers testimonials contact us, what is it?, who we are, customers, testimonials, contact us, features, community, demo, pricing, tags coding community management culture design getting started hardware infrastructure install online community partners people remote work security seo success stories swag technology tools updates use cases, coding, community management, culture, design, getting started, hardware, infrastructure, install, online community, partners, people, remote work, security, seo, success stories, swag, technology, tools, updates, use cases, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ]