[exploring history with the national archives special media division, international worker’s day, also known as may day, is the traditional day that most countries celebrate laborers and contributions of the working class. may day can trace its origins to the mid-1880s when workers worldwide were demanding an eight-hour workday. in america, the date was chosen by the american federation of labor to continue their … continue reading international worker’s day and the female workforce, since 1970, every april 22nd is recognized as earth day. the day is set aside to promote environmental protection and teach the public how to better care for the planet. this year to celebrate earth day, we wanted to share a fun jingle from u.s. forest service environmental icon, woodsy owl. the song is taken … continue reading give a hoot! don’t pollute: earth day with woodsy owl, what a beautiful time of the year for basketball.  the kansas jayhawks had their one shining moment, the nba playoff bracket will be underway soon, and the weather outside is getting nice enough around the country to ditch the snow boots and lace up the sneaks.  using these happenings as inspiration, i decided to take … continue reading gov and basketball, today's post was written by robert nowatzki. robert is an archives technician in research services at the national archives at college park. the musical career of american jazz bandleader, composer, and arranger james reese europe (1881-1919) was as influential and unique as it was tragically short. he played a leading role in introducing early jazz … continue reading james reese europe: america’s jazz ambassador, the displacement and violence of the conflict that would ultimately become the korean war began years before the invasion of south korea on june 25, 1950. as soviet troops entered the japanese-occupied korean peninsula from the north and america and its allies entered from the south, the two parties agreed in 1945 to establish sectors … continue reading korean war refugees in signal corps films, still taken from 29-general-81, 1950 census on april 1, 2022, the national archives will release the 1950 census population schedules online. by law, these records have been confidential for 72 years, but on april 1, the public will be able to access and search the census through a dedicated website. to mark this special occasion, … continue reading spotlight: 1950 census public service announcements, "aunt sammy's radio recipes" 1927 (naid 5710000) aunt sammy, the wife of uncle sam, was created by the u.s. department of agriculture's bureau of home economics and farm radio service. it came to life in the first radio broadcast of "housekeeper chat" on october 4, 1926. the program's goal was to help housewives manage their … continue reading aunt sammy and her radio recipes, before the national archives held more than half a million reels of film, nearly 200,000 videos, and over 300,000 sound recordings originating from dozens of government agencies (and decades before the existence of the national archives) carl louis gregory was a motion picture cameraman dedicated to the evolution of the field. staff identification card for … continue reading carl louis gregory, founder of film preservation at nara, this post was co-written with katherine stinson, an archives specialist in the national archives (nara) moving image and sound branch. one of the joys of archives is discovering a research subject you never even knew was missing from your life. the nara moving image and sound branch and the motion picture preservation lab collaborated on … continue reading queens of the air: american women aviation pioneers, please note: primary source documents used in this post may contain harmful language. see nara’s statement on potentially harmful language. are you in need of some winter sports action during the break between the olympics and paralympics? the u.s. forest service has the perfect film for you, aptly titled winter olympics. winter olympics documents the 1960 … continue reading the u.s. forest service presents: winter olympics, email, ][the unwritten record, international worker’s day and the female workforce, give a hoot! don’t pollute: earth day with woodsy owl, gov and basketball, james reese europe: america’s jazz ambassador, korean war refugees in signal corps films, spotlight: 1950 census public service announcements, aunt sammy and her radio recipes, carl louis gregory, founder of film preservation at nara, queens of the air: american women aviation pioneers, the u.s. forest service presents: winter olympics, posts navigation, subscribe to email updates, archives, categories, tags, learn more, , , ]the unwritten record – exploring history with the national archives special media division[][about the unwritten record, about the bloggers, policies, accessibility, archives.gov, contact us, more blogs from the national archives, privacy policy]