[your host annabel crabb shows you her favourite bits of parliament house in canberra. come and see why! , how does the australian parliament work? and what is the parliament, anyway? who are the people that make up the parliament and how do they get chosen?, this series profiles australia's leaders, featuring career highlights and giving insights into the different eras in which they lead the nation. , this visually stunning documentary series takes you on a journey into the deep interconnectedness between human beings and the landscape., abc education and bell shakespeare bring you a modern twist of some of the most famous scenes from six of shakespeare's most famous plays: macbeth, othello, hamlet, julius caesar, the tempest, and romeo and juliet., since the gold rush of the 1850s, regional victoria has become home to people from all around the world., as the archibald celebrates its centenary with an ambitious exhibition, art lover and acclaimed actor rachel griffiths embarks on a cultural romp through our most coveted and controversial arts prize., your host annabel crabb shows you her favourite bits of parliament house in canberra. come and see why! , do you know what news sources are? can you spot a reliable one in a news story? test your re-source-fulness in our source checker quiz., can you spot a fake? this interactive teaches you how to identify a fake news story then tests your lie detector skills., this all in one interactive resource for teachers is an engaging introduction to the topic that works seamlessly in the classroom on laptops, tablets and projectors., fake images and videos can be so convincing, how can you spot them? part three in a series of four essential fact-checking primers by rmit abc fact check and abc education., fun resources to help with learning english as an additional language., behind the news is a fun, high-energy way for students to learn about current issues and world events., abc tv education provides school programming during the school term, 10am-12pm weekdays on abc me., on-demand, curriculum-linked programming for primary and secondary students., features more than 60 resources to help teachers and students navigate media literacy basics, including news literacy., offers an inspiring range of curriculum-linked abc programs and podcasts for pre-school aged children., the abc education website is being refreshed, which means that some content is currently not available. we apologise for any inconvenience. for further assistance, please visit the abc help centre.][abc education, looking for a particular resource? search by title or keyword:, the house in session, the australian parliament, australia's prime ministers, back to nature, showcase collections, shakespeare unbound, immigration in regional victoria, finding the archibald, the house in session, interactives for the classroom, source checker, real, lolz, oops or fake?, interactive lesson: fact vs opinion vs analysis, interactive lesson: spotting fake images and videos, around the abc, learn english, behind the news, abc tv education, abc iview education, abc education media literacy portal, abc kids early education, connect with abc education, connect with learn english, ]abc education[][home english hass maths science all subjects + topics collections articles, home, english, hass, maths, science, all subjects + topics, collections, articles, more..., the house in session your host annabel crabb shows you her favourite bits of parliament house in canberra. come and see why! , the australian parliament how does the australian parliament work? and what is the parliament, anyway? who are the people that make up the parliament and how do they get chosen?, australia's prime ministers this series profiles australia's leaders, featuring career highlights and giving insights into the different eras in which they lead the nation. , back to nature this visually stunning documentary series takes you on a journey into the deep interconnectedness between human beings and the landscape., facebook, twitter, facebook, link contact us, article about, link newsletter, article faqs, article house rules, terms of use, privacy policy, accessibility, abc help, contact the abc, © 2021 abc]