[delirium is a type of confusion that occurs suddenly and without warning. when people have delirium, they may have trouble focusing or paying attention. they…, it’s official. you need surgery. you may have many thoughts and questions running through your head, whether it’s a minor, same-day procedure or a complex…, it’s estimated that 1 in 10 people will get a kidney stone in his or her lifetime. kidney stones are not only painful, but they can lead…, since the beginning of winter, my eyes feel dry and scratchy. i can no longer wear contacts because my eyes burn and sting, and are…, emotional stress — which can be brought on by grief, anger, loss or death of a loved one, domestic abuse, heated arguments, physical illness, or…, integrative medicine uses an approach to health care that includes practices not traditionally part of conventional medicine, such as herbs, acupuncture, massage, yoga and meditation. integrative…, in many cases, what is known about cancer prevention is still evolving. however, it’s well-accepted that your lifestyle affects your chances of developing cancer. from your diet…, the phrase “you are what you eat” is commonly used in conversations about health and the connection between food and the body. eating an unhealthy…, despite treatments that include medications, surgery and neurostimulation devices, many people with epilepsy continue to have seizures. and the uncertainty of when a seizure could occur affects…, chronic constipation is a reality for many people ― more often women than men. fortunately, these symptoms generally respond to dietary fiber supplements or over-the-counter…, have you ever walked into a room and forgot why you entered? lost the name of an acquaintance you met a few years ago? forgot…, thanks to early detection and treatment, most people with prostate cancer survive, and many may live for decades, according to matthew tollefson, m.d., a mayo…, eczema and psoriasis are both long-term skin conditions that don’t have a cure. in eczema, the immune system comes to the skin and releases chemical…, science is just beginning to understand this long-term, widespread form of chronic pain and how nerves can be “re-mapped” to make pain signals grow quitter,…, january’s mayo clinic health letter included an interview with michael maniaci, m.d., physician leader of advanced care at home at mayo clinic. he explained that…, the average american goes on a couple of diets a year that last only a few months at most, according to dr. stephen kopecky, a…, every year, world heart day is celebrated on sept. 29 to increase awareness of cardiovascular diseases and how to control them. having a healthy heart…, stable angina shouldn’t be ignored. if you’re feeling chest discomfort, talk to your doctor. in the meantime, it’s helpful to know how your heart works…, high-intensity interval training (hiit) — doing short bursts of higher intensity exercise followed by lower intensity exercise for a number of cycles — brings big…, citrus fruits are not only juicy and refreshing, they’re extremely healthy. lemons, oranges, limes, grapefruit, tangerines and pomelos are just a few of the juicy…, few people look forward to having a screening colonoscopy. some people even put off having the procedure done because they hear horror stories that are…, dear mayo clinic: i am an active 43-year-old female who enjoys exercising and staying in shape. i usually try to work out at least three days…, one of the challenges of treating lung cancer is that it’s often diagnosed at an advanced stage, but screening can help catch it at an…, as mayo clinic connect celebrates its 10th anniversary, rosemary huckleberry, better known as @rosemarya, reflects on the evolution of the past 10 years—mayo clinic connect’s and her…, dear mayo clinic: our family recently moved to a state that has plenty of cold, ice and snow during the winter. while my children are excited,…, there’s voluminous evidence that supports exercise as a first-line treatment for parkinson’s disease, according to dr. edward laskowski, a mayo clinic specialist in physical medicine…, it’s almost a worst-case scenario when you’re out in extreme cold, and it’s more common than you might think. dr. sanj kakar, a mayo clinic orthopedic…, can you drink alcohol while taking antidepressants? answer from daniel k. hall-flavin, m.d. it’s recommended to avoid combining antidepressants and alcohol. drinking while taking antidepressants may…, the u.s. preventive services task force has recommended against taking vitamin e and beta carotene supplements for prevention of cancer or heart disease. the task…, earlier this year, the food and drug administration approved the drug aducanumab to treat alzheimer’s disease. in this mayo clinic q&a podcast, mayo clinic neurologists…, migraines affect nearly 40 million people in the u.s. yet pinpointing an effective prophylactic medication ― the most commonly prescribed drugs for people diagnosed with…, parkinson’s disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases, with symptoms that progress over the years. in this mayo clinic talks podcast, mayo clinic…, artificial intelligence is playing a role in colonoscopies. ai has the ability to recognize polyps the same way it can spot faces in facial recognition,…, esophageal cancer is treatable but rarely curable, so early diagnosis and treatment are vital, dr. shanda blackmon explains in this mayo clinic q&a podcast. learn…, the august issue of mayo clinic health letter discussed various types of heart sensations or palpitations, which are the most common reason people seek medical…, can you change the way you think about yourself and your mindset? or improve how you feel just by altering your thoughts? turns out… yes.…, what’s the connection between hormones and migraine headaches? as those with migraines know all too well, the throbbing pain associated with these headaches can be…, an estimated 6.2 million americans age 65 and older are living with alzheimer’s disease, and it’s estimated that by 2050 the number will reach 12.7…, screens have been a help during the covid-19 pandemic. they’ve allowed friends and family members to stay connected and for workers to do their jobs…, in the july 2021 issue of mayo clinic health letter, the article titled “healthy cooking oils” provided an overview of various cooking oil qualities. the…, antifungal preventive medications reduce mortality risk by half in the first year following lung transplantation, according to mayo clinic research involving 667 patients who received…, with incident reports of domestic violence increasing during the covid-19 pandemic, it’s more important than ever to put together a safety plan if you’re at…, most americans experience foot pain and other foot issues at some point during their lives, including torn ligaments and achilles tendon ruptures. in this mayo…, mayo clinic researchers have confirmed the accuracy of a minimally invasive method to detect and help prevent esophageal cancer in patients at risk of barrett’s…, if you’re new to massage, it’s good to have some idea of what’s commonly done during a session: you’ll likely need to answer questions about…, dear mayo clinic: i am 62-year-old woman who has been fairly healthy most of my life. i try to walk daily and eat right. i’ve…, phone calls are a simple, important way to stave off loneliness when you or a loved one is spending more time at home. but after…, as you search for at-home, anti-aging skin care, you’ll come across a variety of skin care labels, such as “natural” and “organic.” what do they…, worldwide, 1 in 3 women over age 50 will experience a bone fracture due to osteoporosis, according to the international osteoporosis foundation. but it’s not…, once you’ve stocked up on healthy cooking oils, learn how to use them. in this mayo clinic minute, angie murad, m.p.h, a dietitian with the…, peripheral neuropathy could have a surprising cause: severe, long-term, untreated hypothyroidism. hypothyroidism develops when your thyroid gland doesn’t produce enough thyroid hormone, and it can…, the signs and symptoms of atrial fibrillation can be vague and cause some people to think they’re just out of shape or getting older. but…, new options available in the u.s. at mayo clinic’s campus in phoenix/scottsdale, arizona — larynx transplant program and 3d-printed prosthetic larynx — appear promising for…, return to top, view all, navigation, my account, contact, thank you for your interest in learning more about mayo clinic press., mayo clinic 200 first street sw rochester, mn 55905, usa,  , mayoclinicpress@service.mayoclinic.com, request information, follow mayo clinic press, © 1998-2021 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer). all rights reserved., some images were created prior to the covid-19 pandemic and may not demonstrate proper pandemic protocols. please follow all recommended cdc guidelines for masking and social distancing. manage cookies][health letter+, recognizing and responding to delirium, preparing for surgery?, the best diet to help prevent kidney stones, relief for dry eyes, your heart can break from stress, integrative oncology uses lifestyle medicine approach, cancer myths vs. facts, mayo clinic minute: the relationship between food and disease, seizure forecasting device with epilepsy: anticipate seizures, take action, constipation in women, explained, memory lapses: normal aging or something more?, mayo clinic q&a podcast: living as a prostate cancer survivor, podcast: breaking down the difference between eczema and psoriasis, fibromyalgia: changing the pain experience, podcast: advanced care at home, podcast: small steps to increase longevity, understanding heart tests, what’s on the horizon for cardiac regenerative therapies?, podcast: how high-intensity intervals impact cardiovascular health, add citrus colors, flavors to meals, benefits of sedation-free colonoscopy, how to exercise safely during the winter, who should be screened for lung cancer?, mayo clinic connect: 10 years of social support for health concerns, questions and celebrations., shoulder injuries and winter weather safety tips, exercise is first-line treatment for parkinson’s, why the risk of frostbite is greater than you think, dangers of mixing antidepressants and alcohol, try these nutrient-packed recipes, how mayo clinic doctors are discussing the new alzheimer’s drug with patients, genetic variants influence migraine treatment response, according to new mayo study, parkinson’s disease: it’s more than a tremor, advancing colorectal cancer screening with artificial intelligence, with esophageal cancer, every decision is life or death, heart palpitations: the cause may be elusive, change your mind to grow, what women need to know about migraines, cultural shift underway in addressing alzheimer’s disease, 5 ways slimming screentime is good for your health, delicious dishes: 3 easy recipes with healthy oils, study finds lung transplant patients given antifungal preventive drugs have lower risk of death, a safety plan can help you get out of an abusive environment, the agony of da feet – assessing foot and ankle pain and injury, “sponge on a string” test for esophageal cancer shows promise, what to expect during a massage therapist visit, mayo clinic q and a: who should have a bone density test?, art of kindness, what are ‘natural’ personal care products?, osteoporosis affects men, too, how to use healthy cooking oils at home, could hypothyroidism be the cause of your peripheral neuropathy?, mayo clinic cardiologist: getting treatment for atrial fibrillation can improve quality of life, new therapies offer improved quality of life for patients who need laryngectomy]health letter plus - mayo clinic press[my account, view all, navigation, my account, contact, create a new list][my account, sign in, wishlists, shopping cart, health letter subscribe articles, subscribe, articles, books view all books authors & experts, view all books, authors & experts, topics, research & innovation, videos & podcasts, impact, cart, health letter subscribe articles, subscribe, articles, books view all books authors & experts, view all books, authors & experts, topics, research & innovation, videos & podcasts, impact, cart, mayoclinic.org, about mayo clinic press, faqs, submission guidelines, contact us, catalog, terms & conditions, privacy policy, mayoclinic.org, about mayo clinic press, faqs, submission guidelines, contact us, catalog, terms & conditions, privacy policy, health letter+, books, topics, research & innovation, videos & podcasts, impact, health letter+, books, topics, research & innovation, videos & podcasts, impact, sign in, wishlists, shopping cart, sign in, wishlists, shopping cart]