[privacy, last updated: june 8, 2020, hearst communications, inc. and certain covered affiliates (defined below) (“hearst”, “we”, “our” or “us”) comply with the eu-u.s. and swiss-u.s. privacy shield frameworks as set forth by the u.s. department of commerce (the “framework”) regarding the collection, use, and retention of personal information transferred to us from the european union, united kingdom or switzerland, as well as norway, liechtenstein and iceland (collectively, the “eea, uk and switzerland”) to the united states. if there is any conflict between the terms in this privacy shield statement and the principles set forth in the framework (“privacy shield principles”), the privacy shield principles shall govern. we have certified to the u.s. department of commerce that we adhere to the privacy shield principles in processing privacy shield information (defined below). the federal trade commission has jurisdiction over hearst’s compliance with the privacy shield. to learn more about the privacy shield program, and to view our certification, please visit https://www.privacyshield.gov/., for the purposes of this privacy shield statement, “covered affiliates” include hearst enterprise services, inc.; hearst technology, inc.; hearst holdings, inc.; hearst magazines, inc.; hearst magazine media, inc. and hearst autos, inc. (with respect to the publications car and driver, road & track and autoweek)., hearst receives personal information about eea, uk and swiss consumers as a data processor when providing services on behalf of and as instructed by our clients or hearst’s eea, uk and swiss subsidiaries or affiliates (collectively, “clients”). we obtain personal information about eea, uk and swiss consumers as a data controller in connection with the operation of our u.s. websites, mobile apps or other u.s. digital services that link to a hearst privacy notice (each a “u.s. digital service”) as well as from other sources. in addition, hearst obtains personal information as a data controller about eea, uk and swiss representatives of current and prospective clients, service providers, suppliers and other business partners., for the purposes of this privacy shield statement, the personal information transferred from the eea, uk and switzerland to us is referred to collectively as “privacy shield information”. as our processing activities vary depending on whether we are acting as a processor or controller, we have described our processor and controller policies and compliance practices separately below., in accordance with the privacy shield principles, hearst remains liable for any processing of privacy shield information by third parties that provide services or handle transactions on our behalf where such processing is inconsistent with the privacy shield principles, unless hearst was not responsible for the event giving rise to any alleged damage., hearst may be required to disclose privacy shield information in response to lawful requests by public authorities, including to meet national security or law enforcement requirements., dispute resolution, in compliance with the privacy shield principles, we commit to resolve complaints about our collection or use of privacy shield information. eea, uk and swiss individuals with inquiries or complaints with regard to any issues in this privacy shield statement should first contact us at privacy@hearst.com. we have further committed to refer unresolved privacy shield complaints to jams, an alternative dispute resolution provider located in the united states. where a privacy complaint or dispute cannot be resolved through our internal processes, eea, uk and swiss individuals should visit www.jamsadr.com/eu-us-privacy-shield for more information or to file a complaint. the services of jams are provided at no cost to the claimant. in certain circumstances, the framework provides the right to invoke binding arbitration to resolve complaints not resolved by other means, as described in annex i to the privacy shield principles., hearst as a processor, hearst provides services to clients pursuant to client instructions. such services include the management and optimization of programmatic and other advertising revenue, the licensing of content management systems, and the publishing of and other services related to custom publications (print and/or digital). as a data processor on behalf of our clients, hearst receives privacy shield information about eea, uk and swiss consumers. the information received by hearst varies from client to client and is specified by each client. typically this includes contact information such as emails and/or information automatically collected such as ip addresses, device identifiers and cookie ids, information about devices, browsers or operating systems and information about interactions with content and ads., as a data processor on behalf of clients, hearst does not have a direct relationship with clients’ consumers. when processing privacy shield information of clients’ consumers, hearst applies the privacy shield principles as follows:, eea, uk and swiss individuals have rights to access personal information about them and to limit use and disclosure of such information. eea, uk and swiss individuals who wish to request access to, limit the use of, or limit disclosures of privacy shield information we process on behalf of a client can contact the relevant client who is the controller of the privacy shield information. hearst cooperates with clients to address clients’ eea, uk and swiss consumers’ requests in relation to privacy shield information and supports clients as needed to respond to the request., hearst as a controller, as a data controller, hearst receives privacy shield information about eea, uk and swiss individuals which we process in accordance with the privacy shield principles., we may receive privacy shield information about eea, uk and swiss consumers when they interact with the u.s. digital services. the hearst privacy notice for the u.s. digital services provides further information about:, in the ordinary course of business, hearst also receives personal information of eea, uk and swiss representatives of current and prospective clients, service providers, suppliers and other business partners. the information we receive in such contexts typically consists of names, business contact information, job titles and organizational affiliations. hearst is a data controller in relation to this type of privacy shield information. we use and share such information to enter into and fulfill our contracts; for our legitimate business purposes, including in the context of corporate transactions or restructuring, and as needed to comply with applicable laws. hearst handles this information in accordance with the privacy shield principles., eea, uk and swiss individuals have the following rights with regard to privacy shield information for which hearst is a data controller:, eea, uk and swiss individuals who wish to discuss or exercise such rights can contact hearst using the details provided below., if privacy shield information for which hearst is the controller is to be used by hearst for a new purpose that is materially different from that for which it was originally collected or subsequently authorized, or if such privacy shield information is to be disclosed to a third party who is not providing services or handling transactions on our behalf, hearst will provide individuals with an opportunity to choose whether to have their personal information so used or disclosed. requests to opt out of such uses or disclosures of personal information should be sent to hearst using the contact details provided below., contact us, to contact hearst with regard to any issues under this privacy shield statement, please write to us at privacy@hearst.com., © 2022 hearst communications, inc. all rights reserved., privacy notice your california privacy rights terms of use][navigation, search, privacy shield statement - privacy shield statement, asset publisher, privacy shield statement, connect to hearst]privacy shield statement - privacy shield statement | hearst[dispute resolution, hearst as a processor, hearst as a controller, contact us][skip to content, about, #hearstlife #hearstlife hearst rise making a difference sustainability, #hearstlife, hearst rise, making a difference, sustainability, news, businesses broadcasting entertainment & syndication fitch group hearst health magazines newspapers real estate transportation ventures, broadcasting, entertainment & syndication, fitch group, hearst health, magazines, newspapers, real estate, transportation, ventures, careers, hearstlink, about, #hearstlife #hearstlife hearst rise making a difference sustainability, #hearstlife, hearst rise, making a difference, sustainability, news, businesses broadcasting entertainment & syndication fitch group hearst health magazines newspapers real estate transportation ventures, broadcasting, entertainment & syndication, fitch group, hearst health, magazines, newspapers, real estate, transportation, ventures, careers, hearstlink, , , , , , , before processing on behalf of clients established in the eea, uk and switzerland, hearst will enter into processing contracts with such clients to comply with applicable data protection laws., such processing contracts will contain data privacy and data security requirements., hearst accesses and discloses privacy shield information of eea, uk and swiss consumers to third parties only as permitted or required by the relevant processing contracts, privacy shield principles, and applicable european data protection laws., hearst has in place measures to protect privacy shield information from loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction., the types of personal information we obtain about our consumers;, the purposes for which we collect and use this personal information; and, the types of third parties with which we share this personal information., to obtain confirmation of whether hearst is processing such information;, to access such information so that they can verify its accuracy and the lawfulness of processing; and, to have such information corrected, amended, or deleted where it is inaccurate or processed in violation of the privacy shield principles, except where the legitimate rights of persons other than the individual would be violated or the burden or expense of providing these rights would be disproportionate to the risks to the individual’s privacy in the case in question., twitter, facebook, google+, , , , , ]