[exploring records relating to african americans with the say it loud! employee affinity group, today's post was written by grace schultz, archivist at the national archives at philadelphia. a companion lesson plan can be viewed in docsteach. the fight to desegregate schools started long before the supreme court’s decision in oliver brown, et al. v. board of education of topeka, et al. (naid 561058), and it continues today. as … continue reading equalization and its role in dismantling racial segregation in virginia public schools, on april 29, 1992, four los angeles police officers were acquitted of all charges, in an east ventura county courthouse in simi valley, for the brutal attack on an unarmed black motorist. rodney glen king was pulled over on march 3, 1991, by two california highway patrol officers, after a high speed chase from an … continue reading frustration & fire: the 1992 los angeles uprising, today's post was written by david r. hardin, archivist at the national archives at st. louis veteran's administration hospital, tuskegee, al (naid 102252457) on february 12th, 1923, veteran’s hospital #91 opened in tuskegee, alabama. initially the hospital’s focus was treating service-related respiratory and mental health issues of african american veterans. however, the hospital would grow … continue reading the trials and triumphs of dr. joseph h. ward, first lieutenant james r. europe and the 369th infantry regiment band playing for patients in the american red cross hospital no. 9, paris, france, september 4, 1918. (naid: 55200536 local identifier: 111-sc-20417) the musical career of american jazz bandleader, composer, and arranger james reese europe (1881-1919) was as influential and unique as it was tragically … continue reading james reese europe: america’s jazz ambassador, this blog is part of the #1950censuscountdown. the 1950 census will be released by the national archives on april 1, 2022. the genealogy bug bit me about a decade ago while briefly cross-training with the archives unit formerly known as the research support services branch at the national archives in washington, d.c. this branch had … continue reading it’s all relative: locating family in federal records and genealogy research strategies, this is the final post in a series about the 25th infantry regiment bicycle corps and their missions to test the effectiveness of bicycles for military use. voyage to st. louis (final leg), july 16-24, 1897, ~1900 miles (3058 km) for the 25th infantry regiment bicycle corps, the roads across missouri were bad and hilly, and with … continue reading iron riders, the 25th infantry regiment bicycle corps, part iv, “to the survivors, to the wives and family members, the children and the grandchildren, i say what you know: no power on earth can give you back the lives lost, the pain suffered, the years of internal torment and anguish. what was done cannot be undone. but we can end the silence. we can stop … continue reading a long overdue apology, this is the third post in a series about the 25th infantry regiment bicycle corps and their missions to test the effectiveness of bicycles for military use. as noted previously, the secretary of war on may 4 approved the long distance bicycle trip by the 25th infantry regiment. the following day, may 5, general miles left washington, … continue reading iron riders, the 25th infantry regiment bicycle corps, part iii, this is the second post in a series about the 25th infantry regiment bicycle corps and their missions to test the effectiveness of bicycles for military use. in july 1896, moss organized at fort missoula, from companies b, f, and h, a bicycle corps to thoroughly test the practicability of the bicycle for military purposes … continue reading iron riders, the 25th infantry regiment bicycle corps, part ii, joy is defined as an emotion of great delight or happiness that is often caused by a positive or an extraordinary experience. joy can be good for one’s health and wellness. scientists and psychologists have studied the effects of joy on people, and determined that joy can prevent stress, improve heart health, reduce pain, and … continue reading experiencing black joy through federal records, email, ][rediscovering black history, equalization and its role in dismantling racial segregation in virginia public schools, frustration & fire: the 1992 los angeles uprising, the trials and triumphs of dr. joseph h. ward, james reese europe: america’s jazz ambassador, it’s all relative: locating family in federal records and genealogy research strategies, iron riders, the 25th infantry regiment bicycle corps, part iv, a long overdue apology, iron riders, the 25th infantry regiment bicycle corps, part iii, iron riders, the 25th infantry regiment bicycle corps, part ii, experiencing black joy through federal records, posts navigation, subscribe to email updates, archives, categories, tags, learn more, more about employee affinity groups, , , ]rediscovering black history – exploring records relating to african americans with the say it loud! employee affinity group[][about rediscovering black history, about the bloggers, policies, accessibility, archives.gov, contact us, more blogs from the national archives, privacy policy, "revolutionary movements then and now: black power and black lives matter" welcome remarks, diversity and inclusion program, employee affinity groups]