[switzerland, english, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, svizzera, italiano, canada, english, canada, français, nederland, , affiliate disclosure, our priority is the reader., our mission is to create additional value and to give swiss players an excellent casino experience on our website. the casinonow switzerland portal is offering free gaming options and useful information, but we also make some money for maintenance. so, we cooperate with partner companies and various online casinos. we receive affiliate commissions for bringing traffic and registrations to their sites., nonetheless, this does not affect the objectivity of our reviews. our experts and authors always remain independent and unscrupulous. we do not accept payments for manipulating our business relationships or highlighting a casino partner as better than the reality., april 19, 2021, 18 min read, casinonow switzerland pays great importance to the objectivity and independence of all our reviews and guides. we believe that only honest reviews are worth the time of our readers. therefore, although we cooperate with some partner companies, you can always be sure that all our reviews are completely impartial., casino rating, 4.6 / 5, casino rating, review and rating of scores is carried out according to many criteria. to evaluate online casinos, their reliability and safety, license, convenience, popularity in a particular country, the payment methods offered and the variety of game developers are checked., playamo casino is part of a large network that boasts years of experience in the gambling industry. the platform is popular in various places, including switzerland offering an impressive list of gambling options for any interested punters. you can also enjoy an endless assortment of slots, table games in real money modules and instant win games. other perks include lucrative jackpots, bonuses and numerous payment methods, including cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, which led us to create this piece about the brand. hello and welcome to our complete review of playamo casino for swiss players., ch, €300 + 150 fs, trust and fairness, 4.6 / 5, games, 4.6 / 5, bonus, 4.6 / 5, customer service, 4.6 / 5, available games, slots, live dealer, blackjack, roulette, baccarat, poker, payout rate, 97%, payout time, 2-3 days, min/max deposit, , payment methods(15), playamo casino is owned by direx and run by softswiss nv, a leading gaming company that started out providing auction software. softswiss expanded to gaming in 2012 and also specializes in cryptocurrency software and bitcoin casinos., concerning licensing, playamo is regulated by the curacao egaming commission and certified for providing fair games. the site was launched in 2016 and is considered new and shiny. you can enjoy more than 2000 games and offers from more than 20 leading developers in the industry, which explains why swiss punters highly favor playamo. playamo is also accessible to most of the world, except the us and uk., advantages:, disadvantages:, playamo casino bonuses are some of the most attractive features drawing swiss punters to the platform. there are various kinds of bonuses for players, starting with a generous welcome bonus awarding €500 and 200 free spins to newly registered members., besides the first deposit bonus, the site also offers reload bonuses, free games and spins, high-roller bonuses, cashback and more. each bonus comes with unique terms and conditions and most include playthrough requirements, so it is essential to review keenly before claiming. playing regularly will also expose you to in-game bonuses, free games and periodic promo bonuses you can claim easily. some bonuses are free, while others require a small deposit., although playamo casino offers a vip club, it is more of a loyalty program that’s open to everyone, high roller, or otherwise. every member opts into the vip club upon registration and signup. however, there are different vip levels, each with higher player benefits. as a vip member, you can enjoy various benefits, depending on your level., for instance, accumulating 50 points will reward you with 15 free spins, 500 points offer 150 spins and 750,000 points pay €1000. at the highest plateau, you can claim a ferrari 488 gtb supercar for having five million levels on your vip chain., playamo casino is a safe gambling platform with a valid license from the curacao egaming commission. the gambling license is the most vital aspect to review concerning casino security and one of the main reasons playamo ranks in reputable lists, such as casinonow. a licensed site has, hypothetically, met all the gambling regulations, including providing games with fair results, paying their taxes and responsible gambling., besides gambling license, playamo has various measures to reassure players of ultimate security. the site is secured by ssl certificates to encrypt communication between player devices and casino servers. 24/7 virus scans, secure payment methods, such as bitcoin, and advanced security algorithms also add a layer of security to ensure player data protection., visit the official playamo casino website and click on the green signup button., fill in your email and password, select a currency, check the box to confirm you are 18 years or older and click on next., fill in your name and date of birth and click on next to complete your address details., click on signup to complete registration and claim the welcome bonus., you will get an email verification with a link you can click to verify ownership. you can then start browsing the extensive list of games available on the site., playamo casino is a fully responsive gambling site, so you can play on various kinds of mobile platforms, including android and ios. playing on the pc is the ideal way if you prefer the large screen and other inherent benefits of better hardware specifications. however, swiss punters looking to play on the go can take advantage of the mobile version, also accessible through tablets., playamo doesn’t offer a dedicated mobile app that you can download or install. however, the web version is just as sleek and useful, retaining all the features you find when playing on your pc. the site supports windows, mac, android and ios., like most reputable casinos you will find listed in casinonow, playamo offers an extensive selection of games, ranging from slots to table games and live dealer options. you can also enjoy modern instant games. there are more than 2000 games available on the site, including all the favored titles., most games are slots, common among casinos, but there’s enough dynamics to accommodate players with widely varying preferences. the site is also part of a large network, so you can expect a thrilling familiar experience., slots are the most popular games in most casinos and playamo isn’t any different. there are hundreds of slots from different developers, featuring everything from classic fruit machines to modern cinematic quests with rich graphics. you can also enjoy jackpot slots, free slots and low-deposit video slots. here are the top playamo casino slots:, there are several other interesting slots you can enjoy on the site. when playing slots, rtp, betting lines and jackpots are some of the key factors to consider and most popular slots perform well across these three areas. playamo features 20 of the best developers and all games are certified for fair results, so finding interesting titles shouldn’t be a problem., like slots, classic table games are inseparable from the online casino game offering and provide unique experiences for both new and regular players. playamo casino has various classic table tables, including blackjack, roulette and baccarat. you can also enjoy poker games in real money modules:, blackjack is the most popular table game you will encounter on playamo casino. there are several variants, so you can never get bored. roulette, baccarat and poker are also very common. other options include dice games, which draw punters looking for something unique., live dealer games have become quite popular among swiss punters seeking more realistic gambling experiences. these games feature a live (real human) dealer shuffling the cards and interacting with players from a studio where the dealing is broadcasted. it also allows players to take on one another in various table games. here are the popular live dealer games available for swiss players:, the minimum bet limit at playamo casino is €1 for all games. however, you will encounter betting limits modeled on the type of game and other factors. when playing slots, for instance, you will encounter different paying lines, maximum bets and other bet line limits. some games, such as brave viking, starburst, sushi, aztec magic and blast! boom! bang!, are more suited to high rollers seeking maximum betting limits and hefty jackpot prizes., thrifty players or those drawn by the fun can enjoy a wide variety of low-deposit games with lower prices. popular favorites include valley of the gods, book of dead, terminator 2, casanova, vikings go berserk and platinum lightning deluxe, among many more., you will find games from different developers, including 20 of the top-rated gaming software providersin the industry. the casino software is very crucial, especially when playing online slots. all games at playamo casino have been certified as safe and fair to give you a real chance of winning. the top game providers for the casino include:, 53+ studios cook up slots for playamo casino, so you can expect inexhaustible dynamics. whether you fancy classic reels or something different, there are numerous slots to enjoy on the site. playamo boasts some 3500 slot games, including popular titles, lesser-known games and new releases you won’t find in other licensed sites listed on casinonow., you can use a variety of payment methods for deposits and withdrawals, ranging from traditional bank transfers and visa to ewallets like neteller and skrill. all payment methods are secure, so you can choose based on preferences and needs. here are the payment methods currently accepted on the site:, playamo casino allows punters to use bitcoin cryptocurrency, which provides a 12-hour turnaround for withdrawals. digital wallets, such as neteller and skrill, also offer swift cashouts, usually within 24 hours. the site offers some of the fastest payouts by all industry standards, appealing to swiss punters seeking instant withdrawals., thanks to its vibrant community and network, playamo casino has one of the best customer support options in the market. while they lack a direct phone call, you can talk to customer support via live chat available 24/7 to answer all your inquiries., you can explore the faqs for concise answers to popular questions about account login and status, deposits, withdrawals, bonuses and policy, among others. however, if you have pressing needs, we recommend contacting the customer support through the live chat feature., playamo casino is a legitimate offer that follows all gambling regulations set forth by the authorities. as such, the site emphasizes on responsible gambling and restricts underage players from participating in gambling activity. playamo also has frameworks to identify and help problem gamblers through partnerships with different organizations., popular partners include gamecare, gordonhouse, gamblers anonymous, spielersuchthilfe and café-beisiellos. players can also opt for self-exclusion and are required to meet all the responsible gambling rules. all you need to get help for problem gambling is reach the customer support via live chat and make inquiries about your options., playamo casino is a modest website with an amazing template and theme. it boasts sleek navigation made easy though bold, easy-to-read fonts, simple black and green color palette and excellent organization. the site also features player education resources, so you can learn more about the casino as you play., what’s more, games are available for both pc and mobile users, which draws punters that prefer playing on the go. the overall experience is exciting and with so many game options, joining playamo should be an easy choice for most newbies and seasoned gamblers., player’s comment, i enjoyed my experience playing slots and table games on the site. the user interface is amazing and my welcome package was credited as soon as i made the deposit. i think they could use a few more games, like slingo and other titles series, but everything else is superb, including fast payouts and very useful live chat., as a fully-fledged gambling platform, playamo casino boasts several games, including slots, table games, live casinos and more. you can enjoy an elaborate selection of classic and novel slots, instant games, dice, roulette, blackjack and baccarat., bitcoin games and video poker are the only other options available on the site for punters seeking other unique offers. however, the offering is extensive enough to meet all kinds of gamblers’ needs, new or experienced. the site currently doesn’t offer sports betting, keno, scratchcards and bingo., although some complaints have been raised about the site, playamo casino remains one of the trusted offers among swiss players. its impressive list of instant win games, slots and table games will suffice for any gambler and the platform is also very easy to use., if you are looking for a reliable casino site with fair games, high payouts and exceptional customer support, playamo is worth a try. nonetheless, it is still recommendable to gamble responsibly and follow all the terms and conditions provided by the casino., chief editor, michael dreher is a passionate lover of the casino industry, having seen the entertaining side of the gaming scene from a young age. born in switzerland, michael is an english-fluent casino expert who has devoted his time and energy to understanding the industry, passing on must-have expertise to casino gamers across switzerland and beyond., switzerland, english, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, svizzera, italiano, canada, english, canada, français, nederland, , you are in safe hands, our recommended casinos have been certified by, sign up for +350 free spins!, to subscribe to the casinonow newsletter, just enter and confirm your e-mail address in the form above. attention, all players and newsletter subscribers must be over 18 years old. by subscribing to the newsletter, you also confirm that you have read and accepted our privacy policies, cookie policies, and terms of use., swiss-casino-now.com website is certified by, disclaimer: casinonow switzerland pays great importance to the fact that all information on our portal is current and verified. as new data is emerging daily, we reserve the right to change the information on our website at any time without any explanation. it is the responsibility of the player to check that the information on our site is still current before registering with the chosen casino. we warn that playing online casino games has entertainment purposes, but the player should always be aware of the serious financial risks. for this reason, players should also know about responsible gambling and gambling laws in their country of residence. we highly recommend this. if you find any discrepancy of information on our portal or in reviewed online casinos, such as bonus offers, available payment methods, or general information, we ask you to contact us so that we can quickly update the information., casinonow switzerland is a free online casino portal dealing with all topics related to local gambling. our mission is to gather valuable information for swiss players so that they have a greater understanding of the swiss gambling market. here you will find a wide range of reviews, guides, and the latest news on the world of casinos. we may partner with some casino companies, but we always keep an objective and independent opinion in all our reviews and the information we present.,  , address bahnhofstrasse 10 / börsenstrasse 18, 8001, zürich, schweiz, phone no. +41 (78) 434-56-25, copyright © 2017-2021 swiss-casino-now.com all rights reserved][review of playamo casino (2022), general information of playamo casino, worth knowing about the operator of the site, overview, advantages and disadvantages of playamo casino, bonus offers of playamo casino, playamo casiono loyalty and vip program, playamo casino security & fairness, how to start play in playamo casino, platforms and mobile gaming in playamo casino for swiss players, games variety of playamo casino, popular slots on playamo casino, popular table games at playamo casino for swiss players, live dealers games on playamo casino, betting limits in games of playamo casino, playamo casino software, playamo casino deposits and withdrawals, customer support for swiss players, responsible gaming for swiss players, playamo casino user experience, other products of playamo casino, playamo casino – conclusion, about the author]review of playamo casino 2022 - get €100 and 100fs![playamo casino, playamo casino is part of a large network that boasts years of experience in the gambling industry, auction software, €500 and 200 free spins to newly registered members., although playamo casino offers a vip club, accumulating 50 points will reward you with 15 free spins, 500 points offer 150 spins and 750,000 points pay €1000., 24/7 virus scans, signup, next, your address details, signup, email verification, android and ios, mobile app that you can download or install, more than 2000 games available on the site, accommodate players with widely varying preferences, real money modules, draw punters looking for something unique, roulette:, blackjack, poker, dice, €1 for all games, brave viking, starburst, sushi, aztec magic and blast! boom! bang!, hefty jackpot prizes, enjoy a wide variety of low-deposit games with lower prices, certified as safe, 3500 slot games, fastest payouts, live chat available 24/7, faqs , customer support via live chat, easy-to-read, pc and mobile users, player’s comment, fully-fledged gambling platform, disclaimer, address, phone no., swiss-casino-now.com][about, switzerland english schweiz deutsche suisse français svizzera italiano canada english canada français nederland, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, svizzera italiano, canada english, canada français, nederland, casinos, online slots, casino games, casinonow, , reviews, , playamo casino, part of a large brand and network, impressive game offering, swift payment options including crypto currency, digital wallets and traditional methods, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , advantages and disadvantages of playamo casino, bonus offers of playamo casino, playamo casino security & fairness, how to start play in playamo casino, platforms and mobile gaming in playamo casino for swiss players, games variety of playamo casino, playamo casino software, playamo casino deposits and withdrawals, customer support for swiss players, responsible gaming for swiss players, playamo casino user experience, other products of playamo casino, playamo casino – conclusion, part of a large brand and network, impressive game offering, swift payment options including crypto currency, digital wallets and traditional methods, exceptional live chat customer support, secure and legitimate, fully mobile responsive, some classic casino games aren’t like keno, craps and scratchcards aren’t available, the live casino only available for desktop, has a couple of unresolved complaints, roulette:live roulette games are the most played live dealer games on the site. you can try the extensive list of live roulette games, including lighting, double ball and immersive roulette., blackjacklive blackjack is another popular game you can enjoy with the presence of a live dealer. there are several live blackjack games, all offering fantastic gameplay and interactivity., pokerlive poker games, such as casino hold’em and deal or no deal, draw many classic card games lovers. options aren’t as many as those for blackjack and roulette, but still worth a try., dicelightning dice is the only live dice game you can play on playamo casino. it offers a sleek interface and interactive dealer to help you with casting and other experiences., find your best сookie сasino woo casino playamo casino joo casino maneki casino, сookie сasino, woo casino, playamo casino, joo casino, maneki casino, casino reviews сookie сasino woo casino playamo casino joo casino maneki casino bob casino house of jack casino betchain casino betchan casino casino mate lucky days casino spinia casino, сookie сasino, woo casino, playamo casino, joo casino, maneki casino, bob casino, house of jack casino, betchain casino, betchan casino, casino mate, lucky days casino, spinia casino, casino games, online slots, switzerland english schweiz deutsche suisse français svizzera italiano canada english canada français nederland, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, svizzera italiano, canada english, canada français, nederland, about michael dreher, michael dreher, casino reviews betchain casino betchan reviews casino mate joo casino house of jack, betchain casino, betchan reviews, casino mate, joo casino, house of jack, casino games, online slots]