[find out about covid-19, covid-19 vaccines, and mayo clinic patient and visitor updates., featured conditions, , each breast contains 15 to 20 lobes of glandular tissue, arranged like the petals of a daisy. the lobes are further divided into smaller lobules that produce milk for breastfeeding. small tubes (ducts) conduct the milk to a reservoir that lies just beneath your nipple., , learn more from breast surgeon judy c. boughey, m.d., i'm dr. judy boughey, a breast surgeon at mayo clinic. in this video, we'll cover the basics of breast cancer. what is it? who gets it? the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment. whether you're looking for answers for yourself or someone you love. we're here to give you the best information available., breast cancer is a relatively common type of cancer. in fact, it is the most common cancer worldwide and the most common cancer diagnosed in the us. currently nearly 4 million women in the us alone are diagnosed with breast cancer. however, this doesn't make a diagnosis easier, but it does mean a great deal of research and effort is being put towards ending it and it's working. survival rates continue to go up as treatments get better and more tailor made to each patient., just like any cancer, breast cancer results from dna mutations that instruct your cells to grow out of control. in this case, it targets cells in the breast tissue, and there's no single thing that causes these dna mutations. there are a wide set of risk factors. but having more of these risk factors, can increase your chances of developing breast cancer. more than anything, your risk is increased by being female. that doesn't mean men don't get it. actually, men account for about 1 percent of all cases. another factor is age. the older you get, the more likely a breast cancer diagnosis becomes. a history of breast cancer increases your risk too, that includes your own personal history if you've had it before and your family history. if breast cancer is common in your family tree, you are likely at increased risk of developing it. scientists have identified several genes that if inherited, are more likely to cause breast cancer. there are many, but the most common and well studied are, brca1 and brca2. while they don't make breast cancer a certainty, your chances of developing it, are much higher with these particular mutations. beyond that, radiation exposure at any point in your life increases your risk of breast cancer. as does having children at what is scientifically considered an older age. starting menopause at an older age and taking post-menopausal hormones., there are things that can decrease your risk. self breast awareness is one. make note of any changes you notice in your breasts. women aged 40 and older should get yearly mammograms. early detection is really your best defense based on your other personal risk factors, you may want to consult with your doctor about starting at even a younger age. limit alcohol, while not drinking lowers your risk the most. drinking in moderation lowers your risk too. stay physically active and try to maintain a healthy weight. you can talk to your doctor if you struggle with this. in some cases, post-menopausal hormones are necessary and can't be avoided. but be aware that they do seem to play a role in breast cancer risk. if you give birth, breastfeeding may reduce your chances of developing breast cancer in the future., things to keep an eye out for that might be signs, include lumps or thickening in your breast, changes in the size or shape of your breast, changes in your breast skin, or a new inversion of your nipple. peeling, scaling or flaking of the areola and redness or pitting of the skin of your breast that looks like an orange. most importantly, because these things may or may not be cancer, be sure to check with your doctor if you notice any of these signs., if you suspect you might have breast cancer. how do you find out? doctors use physical exams, mammograms, ultrasounds, mris, and needle biopsies to determine if cancer is present. if that's the case, you and your doctor will need to discuss treatment options., like any other cancer, breast cancer requires a smart and strategic approach. your treatment plan depends on what you're up against, maybe the size and the stage of the cancer. what type is it? is it sensitive to hormones? many questions have to be answered before you and your care team can put a plan together. surgery is not always the first step. frequently medical therapy, such as endocrine therapy or chemotherapy will be recommended first to decrease the size of the tumor in the breast, or decrease the disease and the lymph nodes, and importantly to evaluate the response of the cancer to the treatment. as this can be critical information to guide further treatment after surgery. but surgery is often indicated as part of the treatment, and that can mean just removing the breast lump, or sometimes removing the entire breast, or both breasts. it usually involves removal of some lymph nodes from under your armpit on that side. whether or not you've got any treatment before surgery, you may need treatment after surgery. this could involve radiation and medical therapies such as endocrine therapy and chemotherapy. if the disease has spread beyond the breast and lymph nodes, surgery is usually not recommended and medical therapy is the main course of treatment. radiation uses beams of energy to target and kill cancer cells and prevent cancer recurrence in that area. chemotherapy uses powerful drugs to kill the cancers. some cancers are sensitive to hormones and can be treated with a different set of drugs. hormone therapy has its own set of side effects, but your doctor will be able to guide you through best options for your specific cancer type. then there's immunotherapy. cancer cells blind your body's natural defense systems. immunotherapy pulls off those blinders, so your body's natural defenses can do their job and zero in on that target. all of these treatments have side effects going through these measures that will ultimately heal you can be really hard. but there are ways to deal with that too. pain management and other palliative care can help you deal with all these necessary but difficult processes., this can all feel overwhelming. a breast cancer diagnosis is a complicated and scary topic. keep your friends and family close. rely on them for practical and emotional support. find someone to talk with, maybe a friend, relative, clergy member, or medical social worker. a support group can be really helpful to connect with others who have been down this road before. the outlook on breast cancer has improved immensely. research and scientific advancement have made this disease a very treatable one. with new and constantly improving therapies and expert care, there is plenty of hope. if you'd like to learn even more about breast cancer, watch our other related videos or visit mayoclinic.org. we wish you well., breast cancer is cancer that forms in the cells of the breasts., after skin cancer, breast cancer is the most common cancer diagnosed in women in the united states. breast cancer can occur in both men and women, but it's far more common in women., substantial support for breast cancer awareness and research funding has helped created advances in the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer. breast cancer survival rates have increased, and the number of deaths associated with this disease is steadily declining, largely due to factors such as earlier detection, a new personalized approach to treatment and a better understanding of the disease., breast cancer care at mayo clinic, , breast and nipple changes can be a sign of breast cancer. make an appointment with your doctor if you notice anything unusual., , signs and symptoms of breast cancer may include:, if you find a lump or other change in your breast — even if a recent mammogram was normal — make an appointment with your doctor for prompt evaluation., there is a problem with information submitted for this request. review/update the information highlighted below and resubmit the form., sign up for free and receive the latest on breast cancer treatment, care and management., errorselect a topic, erroremail field is required, errorinclude a valid email address, to provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with other information we have about you. if you are a mayo clinic patient, this could include protected health information. if we combine this information with your protected health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of privacy practices. you may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link in the e-mail., , you will receive the first breast cancer email in your inbox shortly, which will include information on treatment, diagnosis, surgery and how breast cancer teams at mayo clinic approach personalized care., please, try again in a couple of minutes, doctors know that breast cancer occurs when some breast cells begin to grow abnormally. these cells divide more rapidly than healthy cells do and continue to accumulate, forming a lump or mass. cells may spread (metastasize) through your breast to your lymph nodes or to other parts of your body., breast cancer most often begins with cells in the milk-producing ducts (invasive ductal carcinoma). breast cancer may also begin in the glandular tissue called lobules (invasive lobular carcinoma) or in other cells or tissue within the breast., researchers have identified hormonal, lifestyle and environmental factors that may increase your risk of breast cancer. but it's not clear why some people who have no risk factors develop cancer, yet other people with risk factors never do. it's likely that breast cancer is caused by a complex interaction of your genetic makeup and your environment., doctors estimate that about 5 to 10 percent of breast cancers are linked to gene mutations passed through generations of a family., a number of inherited mutated genes that can increase the likelihood of breast cancer have been identified. the most well-known are breast cancer gene 1 (brca1) and breast cancer gene 2 (brca2), both of which significantly increase the risk of both breast and ovarian cancer., if you have a strong family history of breast cancer or other cancers, your doctor may recommend a blood test to help identify specific mutations in brca or other genes that are being passed through your family., consider asking your doctor for a referral to a genetic counselor, who can review your family health history. a genetic counselor can also discuss the benefits, risks and limitations of genetic testing to assist you with shared decision-making., a breast cancer risk factor is anything that makes it more likely you'll get breast cancer. but having one or even several breast cancer risk factors doesn't necessarily mean you'll develop breast cancer. many women who develop breast cancer have no known risk factors other than simply being women., factors that are associated with an increased risk of breast cancer include:, , to perform a breast self-exam for breast awareness, use a methodical approach that ensures you cover your entire breast. for instance, imagine that your breasts are divided into equal wedges, like pieces of a pie, and sweep your fingers along each piece in toward your nipple., , making changes in your daily life may help reduce your risk of breast cancer. try to:, ask your doctor about breast cancer screening. discuss with your doctor when to begin breast cancer screening exams and tests, such as clinical breast exams and mammograms., talk to your doctor about the benefits and risks of screening. together, you can decide what breast cancer screening strategies are right for you., become familiar with your breasts through breast self-exam for breast awareness. women may choose to become familiar with their breasts by occasionally inspecting their breasts during a breast self-exam for breast awareness. if there is a new change, lumps or other unusual signs in your breasts, talk to your doctor promptly., breast awareness can't prevent breast cancer, but it may help you to better understand the normal changes that your breasts undergo and identify any unusual signs and symptoms., limit postmenopausal hormone therapy. combination hormone therapy may increase the risk of breast cancer. talk with your doctor about the benefits and risks of hormone therapy., some women experience bothersome signs and symptoms during menopause and, for these women, the increased risk of breast cancer may be acceptable in order to relieve menopause signs and symptoms., to reduce the risk of breast cancer, use the lowest dose of hormone therapy possible for the shortest amount of time., if your doctor has assessed your family history and determined that you have other factors, such as a precancerous breast condition, that increase your risk of breast cancer, you may discuss options to reduce your risk, such as:, preventive medications (chemoprevention). estrogen-blocking medications, such as selective estrogen receptor modulators and aromatase inhibitors, reduce the risk of breast cancer in women with a high risk of the disease., these medications carry a risk of side effects, so doctors reserve these medications for women who have a very high risk of breast cancer. discuss the benefits and risks with your doctor., , breast cancer care at mayo clinic, mayo clinic does not endorse companies or products. advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission., check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from mayo clinic press., any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy linked below., , a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.org," "mayo clinic healthy living," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research., , this site complies with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here., ][covid-19: advice, updates and vaccine options, breast cancer, overview, breast anatomy, breast anatomy, products & services, types, symptoms, nipple changes, nipple changes, when to see a doctor, get the latest breast cancer information from mayo clinic delivered in your inbox., thank you for subscribing, sorry something went wrong with your subscription, , causes, inherited breast cancer, risk factors, prevention, breast cancer risk reduction for women with an average risk, breast self-exam, breast self-exam, breast cancer risk reduction for women with a high risk, more information, , related, associated procedures, news from mayo clinic, products & services, breast cancer, advertisement, mayo clinic press]breast cancer - symptoms and causes - mayo clinic[featured conditions, being female., increasing age., a personal history of breast conditions., a personal history of breast cancer., a family history of breast cancer., inherited genes that increase cancer risk., radiation exposure., obesity., beginning your period at a younger age., beginning menopause at an older age., having your first child at an older age., having never been pregnant., postmenopausal hormone therapy., drinking alcohol., ask your doctor about breast cancer screening., become familiar with your breasts through breast self-exam for breast awareness., drink alcohol in moderation, if at all., exercise most days of the week., limit postmenopausal hormone therapy., maintain a healthy weight., choose a healthy diet., preventive medications (chemoprevention)., preventive surgery., advertising & sponsorship, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices][request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, english español português العربية 简体中文, español, português, العربية, 简体中文, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, care at mayo clinic care at mayo clinic appointments locations patient & visitor guide international services medical departments & centers doctors & medical staff patient online services billing & insurance clinical trials international business collaborations about mayo clinic contact us, care at mayo clinic, appointments, locations, patient & visitor guide, international services, medical departments & centers, doctors & medical staff, patient online services, billing & insurance, clinical trials, international business collaborations, about mayo clinic, contact us, health information health information diseases & conditions a-z symptoms a-z tests & procedures a-z drugs & supplements a-z health books healthy living program mayo clinic health letter mayo clinic voice apps healthy lifestyle featured conditions brain tumor, breast cancer, colon cancer, congenital heart disease, heart arrhythmia. see more conditions., health information, diseases & conditions a-z, symptoms a-z, tests & procedures a-z, drugs & supplements a-z, health books, healthy living program, mayo clinic health letter, mayo clinic voice apps, healthy lifestyle, for medical professionals for medical professionals provider relations carelink online referrals continuing medical education mayo clinic laboratories askmayoexpert video center journals and publications, for medical professionals, provider relations, carelink online referrals, continuing medical education, mayo clinic laboratories, askmayoexpert, video center, journals and publications, research research research faculty laboratories core facilities centers & programs departments & divisions clinical trials institutional review board postdoctoral fellowships training grant programs, research, research faculty, laboratories, core facilities, centers & programs, departments & divisions, clinical trials, institutional review board, postdoctoral fellowships, training grant programs, college of medicine and science college of medicine and science mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences mayo clinic alix school of medicine mayo clinic school of continuous professional development mayo clinic school of graduate medical education mayo clinic school of health sciences, college of medicine and science, mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences, mayo clinic alix school of medicine, mayo clinic school of continuous professional development, mayo clinic school of graduate medical education, mayo clinic school of health sciences, giving to mayo clinic giving to mayo clinic give now philanthropy in action frequently asked questions contact us to give, giving to mayo clinic, give now, philanthropy in action, frequently asked questions, contact us to give, request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, twitter facebook pinterest youtube, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, outcomes & ratings, book: mayo clinic family health book, 5th edition, newsletter: mayo clinic health letter — digital edition, angiosarcoma, ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis), inflammatory breast cancer, invasive lobular carcinoma, lobular carcinoma in situ (lcis), male breast cancer, paget's disease of the breast, recurrent breast cancer, a breast lump or thickening that feels different from the surrounding tissue, change in the size, shape or appearance of a breast, changes to the skin over the breast, such as dimpling, a newly inverted nipple, peeling, scaling, crusting or flaking of the pigmented area of skin surrounding the nipple (areola) or breast skin, redness or pitting of the skin over your breast, like the skin of an orange, being female. women are much more likely than men are to develop breast cancer., increasing age. your risk of breast cancer increases as you age., a personal history of breast conditions. if you've had a breast biopsy that found lobular carcinoma in situ (lcis) or atypical hyperplasia of the breast, you have an increased risk of breast cancer., a personal history of breast cancer. if you've had breast cancer in one breast, you have an increased risk of developing cancer in the other breast., a family history of breast cancer. if your mother, sister or daughter was diagnosed with breast cancer, particularly at a young age, your risk of breast cancer is increased. still, the majority of people diagnosed with breast cancer have no family history of the disease., inherited genes that increase cancer risk. certain gene mutations that increase the risk of breast cancer can be passed from parents to children. the most well-known gene mutations are referred to as brca1 and brca2. these genes can greatly increase your risk of breast cancer and other cancers, but they don't make cancer inevitable., radiation exposure. if you received radiation treatments to your chest as a child or young adult, your risk of breast cancer is increased., obesity. being obese increases your risk of breast cancer., beginning your period at a younger age. beginning your period before age 12 increases your risk of breast cancer., beginning menopause at an older age. if you began menopause at an older age, you're more likely to develop breast cancer., having your first child at an older age. women who give birth to their first child after age 30 may have an increased risk of breast cancer., having never been pregnant. women who have never been pregnant have a greater risk of breast cancer than do women who have had one or more pregnancies., postmenopausal hormone therapy. women who take hormone therapy medications that combine estrogen and progesterone to treat the signs and symptoms of menopause have an increased risk of breast cancer. the risk of breast cancer decreases when women stop taking these medications., drinking alcohol. drinking alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer., ask your doctor about breast cancer screening. discuss with your doctor when to begin breast cancer screening exams and tests, such as clinical breast exams and mammograms. talk to your doctor about the benefits and risks of screening. together, you can decide what breast cancer screening strategies are right for you., become familiar with your breasts through breast self-exam for breast awareness. women may choose to become familiar with their breasts by occasionally inspecting their breasts during a breast self-exam for breast awareness. if there is a new change, lumps or other unusual signs in your breasts, talk to your doctor promptly. breast awareness can't prevent breast cancer, but it may help you to better understand the normal changes that your breasts undergo and identify any unusual signs and symptoms., drink alcohol in moderation, if at all. limit the amount of alcohol you drink to no more than one drink a day, if you choose to drink., exercise most days of the week. aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise on most days of the week. if you haven't been active lately, ask your doctor whether it's ok and start slowly., limit postmenopausal hormone therapy. combination hormone therapy may increase the risk of breast cancer. talk with your doctor about the benefits and risks of hormone therapy. some women experience bothersome signs and symptoms during menopause and, for these women, the increased risk of breast cancer may be acceptable in order to relieve menopause signs and symptoms. to reduce the risk of breast cancer, use the lowest dose of hormone therapy possible for the shortest amount of time., maintain a healthy weight. if your weight is healthy, work to maintain that weight. if you need to lose weight, ask your doctor about healthy strategies to accomplish this. reduce the number of calories you eat each day and slowly increase the amount of exercise., choose a healthy diet. women who eat a mediterranean diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil and mixed nuts may have a reduced risk of breast cancer. the mediterranean diet focuses mostly on plant-based foods, such as fruits and vegetables, whole grains, legumes, and nuts. people who follow the mediterranean diet choose healthy fats, such as olive oil, over butter and fish instead of red meat., preventive medications (chemoprevention). estrogen-blocking medications, such as selective estrogen receptor modulators and aromatase inhibitors, reduce the risk of breast cancer in women with a high risk of the disease. these medications carry a risk of side effects, so doctors reserve these medications for women who have a very high risk of breast cancer. discuss the benefits and risks with your doctor., preventive surgery. women with a very high risk of breast cancer may choose to have their healthy breasts surgically removed (prophylactic mastectomy). they may also choose to have their healthy ovaries removed (prophylactic oophorectomy) to reduce the risk of both breast cancer and ovarian cancer., breast cancer care at mayo clinic, breast cancer chemoprevention, genetic testing for breast cancer: psychological and social impact, askmayoexpert. breast cancer. rochester, minn.: mayo foundation for medical education and research; 2017., breast cancer. fort washington, pa.: national comprehensive cancer network. http://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/f_guidelines.asp. accessed june 28, 2017., townsend cm jr, et al. diseases of the breast. in: sabiston textbook of surgery: the biological basis of modern surgical practice. 20th ed. philadelphia, pa.: elsevier; 2017. https://www.clinicalkey.com. accessed june 28, 2017., leading new cancer cases and deaths — 2017 estimates. american cancer society. https://www.cancer.org/research/cancer-facts-statistics/all-cancer-facts-figures/cancer-facts-figures-2017.html. accessed june 29, 2017., warner kj. allscripts epsi. mayo clinic, rochester, minn. april 21, 2017., askmayoexpert. breast reconstruction. rochester, minn.: mayo foundation for medical education and research; 2017., what you need to know about breast cancer. national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/wyntk-breast-cancer. accessed june 29, 2017., breast cancer risk assessment and screening in average-risk women. american congress of obstetricians and gynecologists. https://www.acog.org/resources-and-publications/practice-bulletins/committee-on-practice-bulletins-gynecology/breast-cancer-risk-assessment-and-screening-in-average-risk-women. accessed june 28, 2017., cancer‐related fatigue. fort washington, pa.: national comprehensive cancer network. http://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/f_guidelines.asp. accessed june 28, 2017., palliative care. fort washington, pa.: national comprehensive cancer network. http://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/f_guidelines.asp. accessed june 28, 2017., mcdermott am, et al. surgeon and breast unit volume-outcome relationships in breast cancer surgery and treatment. annals of surgery. 2013;258:808., askmayoexpert. tamoxifen and cyp2d6 (pharmacogenomics). rochester, minn.: mayo foundation for medical education and research; 2017., breast spores. national cancer institute. https://trp.cancer.gov/spores/breast.htm. accessed july 3, 2017., national accreditation program for breast centers. american college of surgeons. https://www.facs.org/quality-programs/napbc. accessed july 3, 2017., toledo e, et al. mediterranean diet and invasive breast cancer risk among women at high cardiovascular risk in the predimed trial. jama internal medicine. 2015;175:1752., breast cancer prevention — patient version (pdq). national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/types/breast/hp/breast-prevention-pdq. accessed june 28, 2017., pruthi s, et al. successful implementation of a telemedicine-based counseling program for high-risk patients with breast cancer. mayo clinic proceedings. 2013;88:68., pruthi s (expert opinion). mayo clinic, rochester, minn. july 24, 2017., warner kj. allscripts epsi. mayo clinic, rochester, minn. april 29, 2019., anders ck, et al. epidemiology, risk factors and the clinical approach to er/pr negative, her2-negative (triple negative) breast cancer. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. accessed may 3, 2019., couch fj, et al. associations between cancer predisposition testing panel genes and breast cancer. jama oncology. 2017;3:1190., breast cancer chemoprevention, breast cancer education tool, breast cancer radiation: can it cause dry skin?, breast cancer staging, breast cancer types, breast self-examination, common questions about breast cancer treatment, dragon boats and breast cancer, gene expression profiling for breast cancer: what is it?, genetic testing for breast cancer, genetic testing for breast cancer: psychological and social impact, infographic: breast cancer risk, infographic: breast reconstruction options, lumpectomy, modified radical mastectomy, nipple changes, paulas story a team approach to battling breast cancer, pink sisters, simple mastectomy and modified radical mastectomy, the long race beating cancer, tumor size, weight loss after breast cancer, what is breast cancer? an expert explains, 3d mammogram, bone scan, brachytherapy, brca gene test, breast cancer supportive therapy and survivorship, breast cancer surgery, breast mri, breast self-exam for breast awareness, chemotherapy, chemotherapy for breast cancer, chest x-rays, complete blood count (cbc), ct scan, hormone therapy for breast cancer, lumpectomy, mammogram, mastectomy, molecular breast imaging, mri, positron emission tomography scan, precision medicine for breast cancer, radiation therapy, radiation therapy for breast cancer, sentinel node biopsy, ultrasound, x-ray, science saturday: mayo researchers lay foundation for ai-based personalized cancer modeling feb. 19, 2022, 12:00 p.m. cdt, breast cancer now leading cause of cancer death in african american/black women feb. 11, 2022, 04:26 p.m. cdt, sharing mayo clinic: integrative health paves road to recovery for young breast cancer patient oct. 31, 2021, 07:00 p.m. cdt, sharing mayo clinic: 'sneaky' cancer spurs mom and daughter to action oct. 30, 2021, 07:52 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: determining if you have dense breasts oct. 19, 2021, 05:13 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic expert offers guidance on supplemental screening for women with dense breast tissue oct. 19, 2021, 04:31 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: systemic therapies for breast cancer oct. 18, 2021, 02:00 p.m. cdt, klobuchar emphasizes importance of breast cancer screening at mayo clinic oct. 14, 2021, 10:34 p.m. cdt, a third chance for a young breast cancer patient oct. 13, 2021, 03:30 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q and a: immunotherapy and breast cancer oct. 06, 2021, 04:30 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: why breast cancer screening is important oct. 05, 2021, 03:00 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic researchers advocate new approach to breast cancer prevention sept. 27, 2021, 04:07 p.m. cdt, consumer health: what do you know about hepatitis? july 28, 2021, 01:32 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic research suggests women over 65 be offered hereditary cancer genetic testing july 22, 2021, 09:00 p.m. cdt, preventive screening during covid-19 pandemic leads to early diagnosis of treatable breast cancer may 07, 2021, 04:00 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic researchers develop test to measure effect of breast cancer gene variants feb. 19, 2021, 07:18 p.m. cdt, a breast cancer survivor's point of view on covid-19 vaccines feb. 09, 2021, 06:37 p.m. cdt, study findings improve accuracy of breast cancer risk estimates for women with no family history jan. 20, 2021, 11:02 p.m. cdt, breast cancer not one-size-fits-all: mayo clinic radio health minute dec. 11, 2020, 09:52 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q and a: turmeric use in breast cancer treatment nov. 09, 2020, 10:22 p.m. cdt, expert alert: accelerated breast cancer treatments at mayo clinic provide more options for patients during pandemic oct. 22, 2020, 04:55 p.m. cdt, science saturday: mining the molecular origins of breast cancer for new cures oct. 17, 2020, 10:00 a.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: don't delay mammograms, other breast cancer screening oct. 16, 2020, 07:00 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: what does it mean if you have dense breasts? oct. 06, 2020, 06:03 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: expedited breast cancer treatment june 02, 2020, 02:46 p.m. cdt, book: mayo clinic family health book, 5th edition, newsletter: mayo clinic health letter — digital edition, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, outcomes & ratings, policy, opportunities, ad choices, new – the essential diabetes book - mayo clinic pressnew – the essential diabetes book, cook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes - mayo clinic presscook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes, new – mayo clinic on hearing and balance - mayo clinic pressnew – mayo clinic on hearing and balance, free mayo clinic diet assessment - mayo clinic pressfree mayo clinic diet assessment, mayo clinic health letter - free book - mayo clinic pressmayo clinic health letter - free book, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, breast cancer, request appointment, contact us, about mayo clinic, employees, find a job, site map, about this site, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, terms and conditions, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices, notice of nondiscrimination, manage cookies]