[the mayo clinic healthy living program provides healthy lifestyle experiences that focus on physical activity, nutrition, and resiliency. our goal? add a wellness component to everyone's mayo clinic experience. we offer a variety of options to meet your interests, time, and budget, and, we’re open to everyone – patients, caregivers, visitors and the community., explore our offerings    rejuvenate spa appointments , , the mayo clinic healthy living program and rejuvenate spa are located in the dan abraham healthy living center on the mayo clinic campus in rochester, minnesota., rejuvenate spa is open and our commitment to your health and safety is our top priority! as part of mayo clinic’s response to covid-19, we have enhanced our cleaning protocols and are diligently enforcing masking and distancing. some services may be temporarily unavailable or modified., book your rejuvenate spa appointment online, , offering massage, acupuncture, manicures, pedicures, waxing, body wraps, makeup, eyelash extensions, led light therapy and more., meet your weight loss goals through lifestyle change by working with the experts behind the mayo clinic diet. multi-day diet experience participants receive a full year of wellness coaching support. past participants have lost an average of nine percent of their body weight., learn more about the diet experience, , receive personal attention from mayo clinic experts and ongoing support from a mayo clinic wellness coach., expand your personal knowledge with help from mayo clinic. participate in healthy living for physicians, a four-module cme course. or, sign up for the mayo clinic wellness coach training & certification program, which is an approved training program through the national board for health and wellness coaching. , healthy living program for physicians wellness coach training program , , gain the knowledge, data, and expert guidance needed to succeed., contact us, 507-293-2933, call today today to make your appointment., visit us on social media:facebook write a review, data retention - to help us determine the effectiveness of mayo clinic advertising, we work with web analytics tools hosted by third parties who receive nonidentifiable information from your browser, including but not limited to the site or the advertisement you came from, your ip address, your general geographic location, your browser and platform information, and the pages you view within our site., any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy linked below., © 2022 mayo foundation for medical education and research. all rights reserved.][mayo clinic healthy living program, weight-loss and well-being support from mayo clinic experts, call 507-293-2966 to book a rejuvenate spa appointment today., rejuvenate spa, a science-based weight loss solution  , wellness training for medical professionals]mayo clinic healthy living program[weight-loss and well-being support from mayo clinic experts][home, offerings, rejuvenate spa, corporate, plan your visit, contact us, sign in, terms and conditions, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices]