[find out about covid-19, covid-19 vaccines, and mayo clinic patient and visitor updates., featured conditions, , a brain tumor can form in the brain cells (as shown), or it can begin elsewhere and spread to the brain. as the tumor grows, it creates pressure on and changes the function of surrounding brain tissue, which causes signs and symptoms such as headaches, nausea and balance problems., , a brain tumor is a mass or growth of abnormal cells in your brain., many different types of brain tumors exist. some brain tumors are noncancerous (benign), and some brain tumors are cancerous (malignant). brain tumors can begin in your brain (primary brain tumors), or cancer can begin in other parts of your body and spread to your brain as secondary (metastatic) brain tumors., how quickly a brain tumor grows can vary greatly. the growth rate as well as the location of a brain tumor determines how it will affect the function of your nervous system., brain tumor treatment options depend on the type of brain tumor you have, as well as its size and location., the signs and symptoms of a brain tumor vary greatly and depend on the brain tumor's size, location and rate of growth., general signs and symptoms caused by brain tumors may include:, make an appointment with your doctor if you have persistent signs and symptoms that concern you., there is a problem with information submitted for this request. review/update the information highlighted below and resubmit the form., sign up for free and receive the latest on brain tumor treatment, diagnosis and surgery., erroremail field is required, errorinclude a valid email address, to provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with other information we have about you. if you are a mayo clinic patient, this could include protected health information. if we combine this information with your protected health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of privacy practices. you may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link in the e-mail., , you will receive the first brain tumor email in your inbox shortly, which will include information on treatment, diagnosis, surgery and how brain cancer teams at mayo clinic approach personalized care., please, try again in a couple of minutes, , an acoustic neuroma (schwannoma) is a benign tumor that develops on the balance and hearing nerves leading from your inner ear to the brain. these nerves are twined together to form the vestibulocochlear nerve (eighth cranial nerve). the pressure on the nerve from the tumor may cause hearing loss and imbalance., , , medulloblastoma is a type of brain cancer that starts in the part of the brain called the cerebellum. medulloblastoma is the most common type of cancerous brain tumor in children., , primary brain tumors originate in the brain itself or in tissues close to it, such as in the brain-covering membranes (meninges), cranial nerves, pituitary gland or pineal gland., primary brain tumors begin when normal cells develop changes (mutations) in their dna. a cell's dna contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. the mutations tell the cells to grow and divide rapidly and to continue living when healthy cells would die. the result is a mass of abnormal cells, which forms a tumor., in adults, primary brain tumors are much less common than are secondary brain tumors, in which cancer begins elsewhere and spreads to the brain., many different types of primary brain tumors exist. each gets its name from the type of cells involved. examples include:, secondary (metastatic) brain tumors are tumors that result from cancer that starts elsewhere in your body and then spreads (metastasizes) to your brain., secondary brain tumors most often occur in people who have a history of cancer. rarely, a metastatic brain tumor may be the first sign of cancer that began elsewhere in your body., in adults, secondary brain tumors are far more common than are primary brain tumors., any cancer can spread to the brain, but common types include:, in most people with primary brain tumors, the cause of the tumor isn't clear. but doctors have identified some factors that may increase your risk of a brain tumor., risk factors include:, , brain tumor care at mayo clinic, mayo clinic does not endorse companies or products. advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission., check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from mayo clinic press., any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy linked below., , a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.org," "mayo clinic healthy living," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research., , this site complies with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here., ][covid-19: advice, updates and vaccine options, brain tumor, overview, brain tumor, brain tumor, products & services, types, symptoms, when to see a doctor, get the latest brain tumor advice from mayo clinic delivered in your inbox., thank you for subscribing, sorry something went wrong with your subscription, , causes, brain tumors that begin in the brain, acoustic neuroma (schwannoma), acoustic neuroma (schwannoma), medulloblastoma, medulloblastoma, cancer that begins elsewhere and spreads to the brain, risk factors, , related, associated procedures, news from mayo clinic, products & services, mayo clinic in rochester, minn., and mayo clinic in jacksonville, fla., have been ranked among the best neurology & neurosurgery hospitals in the nation for 2021-2022 by u.s. news & world report., brain tumor, advertisement, mayo clinic press]brain tumor - symptoms and causes - mayo clinic[featured conditions, gliomas., meningiomas., acoustic neuromas (schwannomas)., pituitary adenomas, ., medulloblastomas, ., germ cell tumors., craniopharyngiomas., exposure to radiation., family history of brain tumors., advertising & sponsorship, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices][request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, english español português العربية 简体中文, español, português, العربية, 简体中文, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, care at mayo clinic care at mayo clinic appointments locations patient & visitor guide international services medical departments & centers doctors & medical staff patient online services billing & insurance clinical trials international business collaborations about mayo clinic contact us, care at mayo clinic, appointments, locations, patient & visitor guide, international services, medical departments & centers, doctors & medical staff, patient online services, billing & insurance, clinical trials, international business collaborations, about mayo clinic, contact us, health information health information diseases & conditions a-z symptoms a-z tests & procedures a-z drugs & supplements a-z health books healthy living program mayo clinic health letter mayo clinic voice apps healthy lifestyle featured conditions brain tumor, breast cancer, colon cancer, congenital heart disease, heart arrhythmia. see more conditions., health information, diseases & conditions a-z, symptoms a-z, tests & procedures a-z, drugs & supplements a-z, health books, healthy living program, mayo clinic health letter, mayo clinic voice apps, healthy lifestyle, for medical professionals for medical professionals provider relations carelink online referrals continuing medical education mayo clinic laboratories askmayoexpert video center journals and publications, for medical professionals, provider relations, carelink online referrals, continuing medical education, mayo clinic laboratories, askmayoexpert, video center, journals and publications, research research research faculty laboratories core facilities centers & programs departments & divisions clinical trials institutional review board postdoctoral fellowships training grant programs, research, research faculty, laboratories, core facilities, centers & programs, departments & divisions, clinical trials, institutional review board, postdoctoral fellowships, training grant programs, college of medicine and science college of medicine and science mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences mayo clinic alix school of medicine mayo clinic school of continuous professional development mayo clinic school of graduate medical education mayo clinic school of health sciences, college of medicine and science, mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences, mayo clinic alix school of medicine, mayo clinic school of continuous professional development, mayo clinic school of graduate medical education, mayo clinic school of health sciences, giving to mayo clinic giving to mayo clinic give now philanthropy in action frequently asked questions contact us to give, giving to mayo clinic, give now, philanthropy in action, frequently asked questions, contact us to give, request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, twitter facebook pinterest youtube, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, book: mayo clinic family health book, 5th edition, newsletter: mayo clinic health letter — digital edition, acoustic neuroma, astrocytoma, brain metastases, choroid plexus carcinoma, craniopharyngioma, embryonal tumors, ependymoma, glioblastoma, glioma, medulloblastoma, meningioma, oligodendroglioma, pediatric brain tumors, pineoblastoma, pituitary tumors, new onset or change in pattern of headaches, headaches that gradually become more frequent and more severe, unexplained nausea or vomiting, vision problems, such as blurred vision, double vision or loss of peripheral vision, gradual loss of sensation or movement in an arm or a leg, difficulty with balance, speech difficulties, feeling very tired, confusion in everyday matters, difficulty making decisions, inability to follow simple commands, personality or behavior changes, seizures, especially in someone who doesn't have a history of seizures, hearing problems, gliomas. these tumors begin in the brain or spinal cord and include astrocytomas, ependymomas, glioblastomas, oligoastrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas., meningiomas. a meningioma is a tumor that arises from the membranes that surround your brain and spinal cord (meninges). most meningiomas are noncancerous., acoustic neuromas (schwannomas). these are benign tumors that develop on the nerves that control balance and hearing leading from your inner ear to your brain., pituitary adenomas. these are tumors that develop in the pituitary gland at the base of the brain. these tumors can affect the pituitary hormones with effects throughout the body., medulloblastomas. these cancerous brain tumors are most common in children, though they can occur at any age. a medulloblastoma starts in the lower back part of the brain and tends to spread through the spinal fluid., germ cell tumors. germ cell tumors may develop during childhood where the testicles or ovaries will form. but sometimes germ cell tumors affect other parts of the body, such as the brain., craniopharyngiomas. these rare tumors start near the brain's pituitary gland, which secretes hormones that control many body functions. as the craniopharyngioma slowly grows, it can affect the pituitary gland and other structures near the brain., breast cancer, colon cancer, kidney cancer, lung cancer, melanoma, exposure to radiation. people who have been exposed to a type of radiation called ionizing radiation have an increased risk of brain tumor. examples of ionizing radiation include radiation therapy used to treat cancer and radiation exposure caused by atomic bombs., family history of brain tumors. a small portion of brain tumors occurs in people with a family history of brain tumors or a family history of genetic syndromes that increase the risk of brain tumors., niederhuber je, et al., eds. cancer of the central nervous system. in: abeloff's clinical oncology. 6th ed. elsevier; 2020. https://www.clinicalkey.com. accessed march 25, 2021., central nervous system cancers. national comprehensive cancer network. https://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/default.aspx. accessed march 25, 2021., wong et, et al. overview of the clinical features and diagnosis of brain tumors in adults. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. accessed march 30, 2021., adult central nervous system tumors treatment (pdq) — patient version. national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/types/brain/patient/adult-brain-treatment-pdq. accessed march 25, 2021., distress management. national comprehensive cancer network. https://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/default.aspx. accessed march 25, 2021., warner kj. allscripts epsi. mayo clinic. jan. 7, 2021., member institutions. alliance for clinical trials in oncology. https://www.allianceforclinicaltrialsinoncology.org/main/public/standard.xhtml?path=/public/institutions. accessed march 30, 2021., muthupillai r, et al. magnetic resonance elastography. nature medicine. 1996; doi:10.1038/nm0596-601., murphy mc, et al. mr elastography of the brain and its application in neurological diseases. neuroimage. 2019; doi:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.10.008., creagan et (expert opinion). mayo clinic. april 1, 2021., infographic: proton beam brain tumor, living with brain tumors, long term brain cancer survivor, punk guitarist survives brain tumor, ablation therapy, acupuncture, brain stereotactic radiosurgery, chemotherapy, ct scan, hypnosis, meditation, mri, needle biopsy, positron emission tomography scan, radiation therapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, mayo clinic q&a podcast: brain tumor awareness month may 03, 2021, 02:56 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: study finds unique form of immunosuppression caused by brain cancer dec. 19, 2020, 10:00 a.m. cdt, book: mayo clinic family health book, 5th edition, newsletter: mayo clinic health letter — digital edition, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, policy, opportunities, ad choices, new – the essential diabetes book - mayo clinic pressnew – the essential diabetes book, cook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes - mayo clinic presscook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes, new – mayo clinic on hearing and balance - mayo clinic pressnew – mayo clinic on hearing and balance, free mayo clinic diet assessment - mayo clinic pressfree mayo clinic diet assessment, mayo clinic health letter - free book - mayo clinic pressmayo clinic health letter - free book, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, brain tumor, request appointment, contact us, about mayo clinic, employees, find a job, site map, about this site, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, terms and conditions, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices, notice of nondiscrimination, manage cookies]