[find out about covid-19, covid-19 vaccines, and mayo clinic patient and visitor updates., featured conditions, , colon cancer can occur in any part of the colon. an examination of your entire colon using a long, flexible tube equipped with a camera (colonoscopy) is one way to detect colon cancer and polyps., , colon cancer is a type of cancer that begins in the large intestine (colon). the colon is the final part of the digestive tract., colon cancer typically affects older adults, though it can happen at any age. it usually begins as small, noncancerous (benign) clumps of cells called polyps that form on the inside of the colon. over time some of these polyps can become colon cancers., polyps may be small and produce few, if any, symptoms. for this reason, doctors recommend regular screening tests to help prevent colon cancer by identifying and removing polyps before they turn into cancer., if colon cancer develops, many treatments are available to help control it, including surgery, radiation therapy and drug treatments, such as chemotherapy, targeted therapy and immunotherapy., colon cancer is sometimes called colorectal cancer, which is a term that combines colon cancer and rectal cancer, which begins in the rectum., signs and symptoms of colon cancer include:, many people with colon cancer experience no symptoms in the early stages of the disease. when symptoms appear, they'll likely vary, depending on the cancer's size and location in your large intestine., if you notice any persistent symptoms that worry you, make an appointment with your doctor., talk with your doctor about when to begin colon cancer screening. guidelines generally recommend that colon cancer screenings begin around 50. your doctor may recommend more frequent or earlier screening if you have other risk factors, such as a family history of the disease., there is a problem with information submitted for this request. review/update the information highlighted below and resubmit the form., sign up for free and receive the latest on colon cancer treatment, care and management., erroremail field is required, errorinclude a valid email address, to provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with other information we have about you. if you are a mayo clinic patient, this could include protected health information. if we combine this information with your protected health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of privacy practices. you may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link in the e-mail., , you will receive the first colon cancer care journey message in your inbox shortly, which will include the latest treatment options, innovations and other information from our colon cancer experts., please, try again in a couple of minutes, doctors aren't certain what causes most colon cancers., in general, colon cancer begins when healthy cells in the colon develop changes (mutations) in their dna. a cell's dna contains a set of instructions that tell a cell what to do., healthy cells grow and divide in an orderly way to keep your body functioning normally. but when a cell's dna is damaged and becomes cancerous, cells continue to divide — even when new cells aren't needed. as the cells accumulate, they form a tumor., with time, the cancer cells can grow to invade and destroy normal tissue nearby. and cancerous cells can travel to other parts of the body to form deposits there (metastasis)., factors that may increase your risk of colon cancer include:, doctors recommend that people with an average risk of colon cancer consider colon cancer screening around age 50. but people with an increased risk, such as those with a family history of colon cancer, should consider screening sooner., several screening options exist — each with its own benefits and drawbacks. talk about your options with your doctor, and together you can decide which tests are appropriate for you., you can take steps to reduce your risk of colon cancer by making changes in your everyday life. take steps to:, some medications have been found to reduce the risk of precancerous polyps or colon cancer. for instance, some evidence links a reduced risk of polyps and colon cancer to regular use of aspirin or aspirin-like drugs. but it's not clear what dose and what length of time would be needed to reduce the risk of colon cancer. taking aspirin daily has some risks, including gastrointestinal bleeding and ulcers., these options are generally reserved for people with a high risk of colon cancer. there isn't enough evidence to recommend these medications to people who have an average risk of colon cancer., if you have an increased risk of colon cancer, discuss your risk factors with your doctor to determine whether preventive medications are safe for you., , colon cancer care at mayo clinic, mayo clinic does not endorse companies or products. advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission., check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from mayo clinic press., any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy linked below., , a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.org," "mayo clinic healthy living," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research., , this site complies with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here., ][covid-19: advice, updates and vaccine options, colon cancer, overview, colon cancer, colon cancer, products & services, symptoms, when to see a doctor, get the latest colon cancer help and advice from mayo clinic delivered in your inbox., thank you for subscribing, sorry something went wrong with your subscription, , causes, risk factors, prevention, screening colon cancer, lifestyle changes to reduce your risk of colon cancer, colon cancer prevention for people with a high risk, more information, , related, associated procedures, news from mayo clinic, products & services, mayo clinic in rochester, minn., has been recognized as the best gastroenterology & gi surgery hospital in the nation for 2021-2022 by u.s. news & world report., colon cancer, advertisement, mayo clinic press]colon cancer - symptoms and causes - mayo clinic[featured conditions, older age., african-american race., a personal history of colorectal cancer or polyps., inflammatory intestinal conditions., inherited syndromes that increase colon cancer risk., family history of colon cancer., low-fiber, high-fat diet., a sedentary lifestyle., diabetes., obesity., smoking., alcohol., radiation therapy for cancer., eat a variety of fruits, vegetables and whole grains., drink alcohol in moderation, if at all., stop smoking., exercise most days of the week., maintain a healthy weight., advertising & sponsorship, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices][request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, english español português العربية 简体中文, español, português, العربية, 简体中文, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, care at mayo clinic care at mayo clinic appointments locations patient & visitor guide international services medical departments & centers doctors & medical staff patient online services billing & insurance clinical trials international business collaborations about mayo clinic contact us, care at mayo clinic, appointments, locations, patient & visitor guide, international services, medical departments & centers, doctors & medical staff, patient online services, billing & insurance, clinical trials, international business collaborations, about mayo clinic, contact us, health information health information diseases & conditions a-z symptoms a-z tests & procedures a-z drugs & supplements a-z health books healthy living program mayo clinic health letter mayo clinic voice apps healthy lifestyle featured conditions brain tumor, breast cancer, colon cancer, congenital heart disease, heart arrhythmia. see more conditions., health information, diseases & conditions a-z, symptoms a-z, tests & procedures a-z, drugs & supplements a-z, health books, healthy living program, mayo clinic health letter, mayo clinic voice apps, healthy lifestyle, for medical professionals for medical professionals provider relations carelink online referrals continuing medical education mayo clinic laboratories askmayoexpert video center journals and publications, for medical professionals, provider relations, carelink online referrals, continuing medical education, mayo clinic laboratories, askmayoexpert, video center, journals and publications, research research research faculty laboratories core facilities centers & programs departments & divisions clinical trials institutional review board postdoctoral fellowships training grant programs, research, research faculty, laboratories, core facilities, centers & programs, departments & divisions, clinical trials, institutional review board, postdoctoral fellowships, training grant programs, college of medicine and science college of medicine and science mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences mayo clinic alix school of medicine mayo clinic school of continuous professional development mayo clinic school of graduate medical education mayo clinic school of health sciences, college of medicine and science, mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences, mayo clinic alix school of medicine, mayo clinic school of continuous professional development, mayo clinic school of graduate medical education, mayo clinic school of health sciences, giving to mayo clinic giving to mayo clinic give now philanthropy in action frequently asked questions contact us to give, giving to mayo clinic, give now, philanthropy in action, frequently asked questions, contact us to give, request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, twitter facebook pinterest youtube, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, book: mayo clinic family health book, 5th edition, book: mayo clinic on digestive health, newsletter: mayo clinic health letter — digital edition, a persistent change in your bowel habits, including diarrhea or constipation or a change in the consistency of your stool, rectal bleeding or blood in your stool, persistent abdominal discomfort, such as cramps, gas or pain, a feeling that your bowel doesn't empty completely, weakness or fatigue, unexplained weight loss, older age. colon cancer can be diagnosed at any age, but a majority of people with colon cancer are older than 50. the rates of colon cancer in people younger than 50 have been increasing, but doctors aren't sure why., african-american race. african-americans have a greater risk of colon cancer than do people of other races., a personal history of colorectal cancer or polyps. if you've already had colon cancer or noncancerous colon polyps, you have a greater risk of colon cancer in the future., inflammatory intestinal conditions. chronic inflammatory diseases of the colon, such as ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease, can increase your risk of colon cancer., inherited syndromes that increase colon cancer risk. some gene mutations passed through generations of your family can increase your risk of colon cancer significantly. only a small percentage of colon cancers are linked to inherited genes. the most common inherited syndromes that increase colon cancer risk are familial adenomatous polyposis (fap) and lynch syndrome, which is also known as hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (hnpcc)., family history of colon cancer. you're more likely to develop colon cancer if you have a blood relative who has had the disease. if more than one family member has colon cancer or rectal cancer, your risk is even greater., low-fiber, high-fat diet. colon cancer and rectal cancer may be associated with a typical western diet, which is low in fiber and high in fat and calories. research in this area has had mixed results. some studies have found an increased risk of colon cancer in people who eat diets high in red meat and processed meat., a sedentary lifestyle. people who are inactive are more likely to develop colon cancer. getting regular physical activity may reduce your risk of colon cancer., diabetes. people with diabetes or insulin resistance have an increased risk of colon cancer., obesity. people who are obese have an increased risk of colon cancer and an increased risk of dying of colon cancer when compared with people considered normal weight., smoking. people who smoke may have an increased risk of colon cancer., alcohol. heavy use of alcohol increases your risk of colon cancer., radiation therapy for cancer. radiation therapy directed at the abdomen to treat previous cancers increases the risk of colon cancer., eat a variety of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. fruits, vegetables and whole grains contain vitamins, minerals, fiber and antioxidants, which may play a role in cancer prevention. choose a variety of fruits and vegetables so that you get an array of vitamins and nutrients., drink alcohol in moderation, if at all. if you choose to drink alcohol, limit the amount of alcohol you drink to no more than one drink a day for women and two for men., stop smoking. talk to your doctor about ways to quit that may work for you., exercise most days of the week. try to get at least 30 minutes of exercise on most days. if you've been inactive, start slowly and build up gradually to 30 minutes. also, talk to your doctor before starting any exercise program., maintain a healthy weight. if you are at a healthy weight, work to maintain your weight by combining a healthy diet with daily exercise. if you need to lose weight, ask your doctor about healthy ways to achieve your goal. aim to lose weight slowly by increasing the amount of exercise you get and reducing the number of calories you eat., colon cancer care at mayo clinic, colon cancer screening, colon cancer screening: at what age can you stop?, askmayoexpert. colorectal cancer: screening and management (adult). rochester, minn.: mayo foundation for medical education and research; 2018., colon cancer. plymouth meeting, pa.: national comprehensive cancer network. https://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/default.aspx. accessed jan. 30, 2019., feldman m, et al. colorectal cancer. in: sleisenger and fordtran's gastrointestinal and liver disease: pathophysiology, diagnosis, management. 10th ed. philadelphia, pa.: saunders elsevier; 2016. https://www.clinicalkey.com. accessed jan. 30, 2019., niederhuber je, et al., eds. colorectal cancer. in: abeloff's clinical oncology. 5th ed. philadelphia, pa.: churchill livingstone elsevier; 2014. https://www.clinicalkey.com. accessed jan. 30, 2019., colon cancer treatment (pdq) — patient version. national cancer institute. https://www.cancer.gov/types/colorectal/patient/colon-treatment-pdq. accessed. jan. 30, 2019., macrae fa. colorectal cancer: epidemiology, risk factors and protective factors. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. accessed feb. 5, 2019., kandel p, et al. colorectal endoscopic mucosal resection (emr). best practice & research clinical gastroenterology. 2017;31:455., palliative care. plymouth meeting, pa.: national comprehensive cancer network. https://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/default.aspx. accessed jan. 30, 2019., moertel cg, et al. levamisole and fluorouracil for adjuvant therapy of resected colon carcinoma. the new england journal of medicine. 1990;322:352., dean pa, et al. laparoscopic-assisted segmental colectomy: early mayo clinic experience. mayo clinic proceedings. 1994;69:834., warner kj. allscripts epsi. mayo clinic, rochester, minn. oct. 10, 2019., grothey a, et al. duration of adjuvant chemotherapy for stage iii colon cancer. new england journal of medicine. 2018;378:1177., andre t, et al. the idea (international duration evaluation of adjuvant chemotherapy) collaboration: prospective combined analysis of phase iii trials investigating duration of adjuvant therapy with the folfox (folfox4 or modified folfox6) or xelox (3 versus 6 months) regimen for patients with stage iii colon cancer: trial design and current status. current colorectal cancer reports. 2013;9(3):261-269., colon cancer, colon cancer, colon cancer family registry, colon cancer screening, colon cancer screening: at what age can you stop?, colon cancer stages, colostomy, gi stents, living with an ostomy, pouch cover, chemotherapy, colectomy, colonoscopy, complete blood count (cbc), ct scan, palliative care, radiation therapy, stool dna test, x-ray, ai reduces miss rate of precancerous polyps in colorectal cancer screening april 18, 2022, 03:30 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: colorectal cancer on the rise in younger adults march 22, 2022, 11:00 a.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: what to know when colorectal cancer runs in the family march 15, 2022, 04:01 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: who should be screened for colorectal cancer? march 09, 2022, 05:30 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: breaking down colorectal cancer march 01, 2022, 05:30 p.m. cdt, bowel cancer: mayo clinic healthcare expert describes role hard-to-see polyps play in cancer risk oct. 11, 2021, 03:26 p.m. cdt, tumor cell pd-l1 may mediate sensitivity to chemotherapy in colorectal cancer treatment july 02, 2021, 04:13 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: when colon cancer spreads to the liver may 18, 2021, 03:38 p.m. cdt, mayo study finds colon cancer driven by hereditary gene mutations in 1 in 6 patients april 19, 2021, 09:16 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q and a: colorectal cancer screening remains important march 25, 2021, 06:41 p.m. cdt, colorectal cancer cases rising in younger adults, screenings are down march 16, 2021, 03:32 p.m. cdt, sharing mayo clinic: celebrating 5 years cancer-free after colon cancer march 14, 2021, 04:25 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: what you should know about colorectal cancer march 03, 2021, 05:43 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: screening for colorectal cancer can be prevention march 01, 2021, 05:39 p.m. cdt, updated screening guidelines for colorectal cancer oct. 30, 2020, 10:13 a.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: breaking down colorectal cancer aug. 18, 2020, 09:28 p.m. cdt, why colorectal cancer screening is so important: mayo clinic radio health minute aug. 07, 2020, 08:16 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic minute: symptoms of colorectal cancer june 03, 2020, 05:13 p.m. cdt, science saturday: a new era in colon cancer detection and treatment march 23, 2019, 11:43 a.m. cdt, book: mayo clinic family health book, 5th edition, book: mayo clinic on digestive health, newsletter: mayo clinic health letter — digital edition, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, policy, opportunities, ad choices, new – the essential diabetes book - mayo clinic pressnew – the essential diabetes book, cook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes - mayo clinic presscook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes, new – mayo clinic on hearing and balance - mayo clinic pressnew – mayo clinic on hearing and balance, free mayo clinic diet assessment - mayo clinic pressfree mayo clinic diet assessment, mayo clinic health letter - free book - mayo clinic pressmayo clinic health letter - free book, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, colon cancer, request appointment, contact us, about mayo clinic, employees, find a job, site map, about this site, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, terms and conditions, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices, notice of nondiscrimination, manage cookies]