[aboriginal and torres strait islander viewers are warned that the following may contain images and voices of deceased persons., the following people achieved high levels of recognition and are in some way linked to australia. some were not born in australia; some never lived here. others were born here. some lived here permanently., all have contributed significantly to australia’s development in some way, whether through discoveries, leadership, cultural achievement, sporting prowess, science, technology, innovation, … ., a separate listing is provided for indigenous australians. it includes people from all areas of achievement., the final section includes biographical information resources related to all australian achievers., each listing is given in alphabetical order, using the following format - surname, title [if applicable], first name[s]. a brief indication of area[s] and achievement[s] is provided., beginning of this section, , beginning of this section, , beginning of this section, , beginning of famous indigenous australians, , , © d & b mann webmasters. all rights reserved., last updated - 1 january 2022.][aussie educator, famous australians, other sources]famous australians - aussie educator[][famous australians, famous indigenous australians, other information sources, 200 significant australians grouped alphabetically and under specific headings. information on how chosen., australian biography online ‘a web-based biographical resource profiling some of the most extraordinary australians of our time’. film australia and the national library., australian composers ‘the links feature a short biography, email & web links, and photo for each represented composer’. nearly 400., australian dictionary of biography online contains 10 000+ biographies of australians, both famous and “infamous”. entries have been done by people from the field in which the person being covered was best known. multiple search methods : surname, occupation, author, town, specific dates and more. highly recommended !, updated !  australian newspapers digitisation program ‘a free online service that enables full-text searching of newspaper articles. the service includes newspapers published in each state and territory from the 1800s to the mid-1950s’. access material from the history of australia about individual famous people, written while they were alive., australian of the year awards information about the awards and all the recipients of australian of the year, senior australian of the year, young australian of the year and australia’s local hero., australia’s nobel laureates and the nobel prize overview of winners and the nobel prize, plus individual biographies., gallery of australian biographies civics and citizenship education website. there is also a gallery of historical biography’., dictionary of australian biography project gutenberg. a 1949 listing by percival serle., encyclopaedia of australian science university of melbourne. ‘incorporating bright sparcs and australian science at work’., list of famous australians kids.net.au. famous australians grouped under headings from art to other areas., tall poppy campaign [great australian achievers.] ‘some of australia’s great men and women, past and present, whose achievements are celebrated’., the australian women’s register ‘a rich and growing source of information about australian women and their organisations. use the register to find women, organisations, archives and publications’., new !  20 inspiring indigenous australians changing the face of a nation ‘the latest generation of the world’s oldest living culture’. pinterest., 20 inspiring black women who have changed australia [nitv] ‘nitv has put together a list of 20 trailblazing indigenous women who have changed australia’., 20 inspiring indigenous women who have changed australia ‘nitv has put together a list of 20 trailblazing indigenous women who have changed australia’., aboriginal heroes : episodes in the colonial landscape ‘five narratives retell episodes of queensland history. the revived narratives bring aboriginal oral memory and the ‘unvoiced’ into the australian public domain’., australian indigenous rights activists alphabetical listing through to mick gooda and galarrwuy yunupingu. linked to further information on each. wikipedia./li>, updated !  deadly stories ‘celebrates the many achievements of aboriginal and torres strait islander peoples and their communities across queensland. the deadly stories gallery shares challenges and triumphs, and salutes the everyday success stories of aboriginal and torres strait islander queenslanders’., famous aboriginal people & role models creative spirits., famous aboriginal sportspeople [creative spirits] ‘a surprisingly long list of successful aboriginal sportspeople and role models across all disciplines of sport’. check links at the bottom for a range of specific sports., heroes in the struggle for justice ‘a gallery in tribute to heroes of the political struggle for aboriginal rights : 1905 - 2005’., how much do you know about famous indigenous australians ? take this short quiz and see how good your knowledge is., indigenous australian historical figures ‘some indigenous australians are remembered in history for leadership prior to european colonisation, some for their resistance to that colonisation, others for assisting europeans explore the country’. wikipedia., indigenous australians part of the australian dictionary of biography online. each of the 193 [at time of updating] links to further information. a more extensive listing is found on the australian national university indigenous australia cultural advice site., indigenous australian visual artists ‘numerous indigenous australians are noted for their participation in, and contributions to, the visual arts of australia and abroad’. wikipedia., lists of indigenous australians lists from historical figures to writers, musicians to sportspeople. wikipedia., the 10 most influential indigenous australians ‘here are just 10 of the many indigenous australians who have had an incredible impact on their communities, the country and the world’.]