[canada, english, canada, french, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, switzerland, english, svizzera, iitaliano, nederland, , april 19, 2021, 9 min read, our priority in casinonow canada is to guarantee locals an excellent experience playing online casinos. our tests & reviews are always unbiased. sometimes an online casino is 100% convincing and we decide to partner with it. however, this does not affect the objectivity of our assessment., casino rating, 5.0 / 5, casino rating, review and rating of scores is carried out according to many criteria. to evaluate online casinos, their reliability and safety, license, convenience, popularity in a particular country, the payment methods offered and the variety of game developers are checked., what is the perfect formula when it comes to the best online casino? there are many opinions, but the average answer would have to consist of big bonuses, a variety of fun games including live casino games by some of the greatest software providers on the market, many payment options, and perfect customer support. well, if you’re looking for an online casino that incorporates all of these features – then look no further than playamo casino., ca, c$1500 + 150 fs, trust and fairness, 5.0 / 5, games, 5.0 / 5, bonus, 5.0 / 5, customer service, 5.0 / 5, available games, slots, live dealer, blackjack, roulette, baccarat, poker, payout rate, 97%, payout time, 2-3 days, min/max deposit, , payment methods(15), playamo casino is owned by the highly reputed company called dama n.v., and it was officially founded back in 2016. dama n.v. has a license number 8048/jaz2020-013 and is licensed by antillephone n.v. if you want to learn more about what this online casino offers, including the welcome bonus, payment options, live casino and casino games – then look no further than our casino review playamo below., as in the case of practically every other online casino, regardless if it’s a popular one or not – playamo has its pros and cons – advantages and disadvantages. of course, the number of advantages is commensurately bigger than the number of the disadvantages. below in our playamo casino review you will find what we believe are some of strong sides of playamo casino as well as some of the drawbacks., pros:, cons:, you can look forward to getting a list of bonuses at playamo casino. here are some of them:, playamo is quite generous with the bonuses. visit the promotions section often to see their latest bonuses and promotional offers., the loyalty and vip programs are getting more and more popular in casinos, and playamo casino is not an exclusion of this rule. you take part by virtue of just playing the casino games. and the way the vip program goes is very simple – all you need to do is play more games more often. the playamo online casino keeps track of every bet ever made by every gamer. and it’s simple – the more you play, the higher the number of points that you will get. the more points you get, the bigger the chances that you will advance further in the vip ladder. and the higher up you advance on the vip ladder, the bigger the prizes that you will get., for example, just to make you salivate, the top prize that you can achieve by virtue of your loyalty is a ferrari 488 gtb car. of course, we’re not saying that it’s easy to get to this level – you will need to spend a lot of time playing casino games at casino playamo if you are to get even halfway there. but there are other prizes that you can look forward to, as well. so, it can pay off to play as often as possible – making sure that you do so responsibly., you don’t need to worry at all about your safety as you play slot games at casino playamo. this is one of the most secure online casinos to date. the technicians that have constructed the playamo casino platform have embedded encryption ssl technology using 128 bits. this will keep both your personal and financial data completely safe, regardless of what payment method you will use on the platform., moreover, as we’ve mentioned in the introductory paragraphs, playamo casino is owned and operated by the reputable company dama n.v. which is the operator of a few other legit online casinos. playamo casino is licensed by antillephone n.v. and is under the jurisdiction of curacao. the curacao gaming commission is one of the leading authorities in the igaming industry., at all times, if you happen to have any questions regarding playamo casino whatsoever, then you can feel free to contact customer support via live chat or otherwise. you will get all the answers you need very quickly – and this is yet another proof that playamo casino is indeed legit and completely secure and safe., it’s very simple to start playing your favorite games at the online casino playamo. and at this point in our review of playamo casino, you will get to read our list of steps that you need to follow to play:, and that’s all there is to it. you can play here in no time, as the process of creating an account and using the deposit withdrawal methods is very simple. make sure to use the welcome package and take note of the reload bonuses for good measure. above all else, don’t forget to have fun!, the mobile casino is a very popular options for practically any fan of gambling – regardless if it’s a casual or a high roller. and playamo casino has managed to create one of the very best mobile casino gaming experiences that we have seen to date. true, there is no mobile application that you could download from the app stores yet. however, this doesn’t mean that casino playamo doesn’t offer a sound mobile gaming experience., for starters, you can visit the casino’s new mobile website from your smartphone. you will get a streamlined experience from your mobile device. the menus are neatly organized into categories, and you can easily find your way around the mobile gaming platform., the entire bonus package that canadian players could use in the regular platform can also be used during mobile gaming. make sure to get all the bonus cash that you can get your hands on – as mobile gaming can be quite addictive!, so, we have come to the meat of this article and, arguably, the most important part of our review. as things stand, playamo has some of the best games that you can play for fun. they are made by some of the best developers on the market, such as evolution gaming (known for the quality of their live dealer games), netent, microgaming, playtech, pragmatic play, and play’n go, among others. there are 2,000+ games in playamo casino, and over 1,500 of them are slots. this ensures that you will get a premium-level online gambling experience. for more information on the types of available games, consult the following section., there are many different types of games that you can play at playamo online casino. some of them are:, and several other types of games. arguably, the slots are the most popular games at playamo, so you can expect to be able to play thousands of them. new games are also being introduced by playamo on a frequent basis., and of course, the live dealer games are very popular at playamo, as well. many of the most popular ones have been developed by one developer alone – evolution gaming. this is a leading name in the field of live dealer games and playamo features a number of games by this developer. some of the most popular live dealers games that you can play at playamo are, and others. the live dealers are all well-trained professionals and they help the player have a very fun, unique experience in-between online gambling and brick-and-mortar gambling., there are several payment methods that you can use for making deposits and withdrawals at playamo in a safe, secure way. playamo offers 25 separate deposit methods and 22 separate withdrawal method. in our table below, you will get to see the most popular ones as well as their associated deposit and withdrawal limits., playamo has a dedicated customer service team at work, 24/7, as is the case with every other self-respecting online casino. the fact of the matter though, is that you can only access customer service by live chat. you can’t contact them by phone or by email – as is the case with other top-tier casinos. but fear not, as the live chat customer service team is available 24/7. however, you need to bear in mind that there are times when the customer service team is flooded with inquiries, so it may be difficult to get in touch. you may need to wait. we hope that, in the near future, playamo online casino will start introducing new methods of contacting customer service, such as the aforementioned phone customer service and email customer service., if you ever believe that you may be having a problem with your gambling compulsion, then it may be time to consider stopping for a while. luckily, you can apply a few measures on the playamo website to stop yourself from overindulging in gambling. the first and most popular of the measures is the so-called exclusion list. you can get your name entered in it if you just contact customer service at playamo via the live chat option. and if you need additional advice on how to manage your gambling obsession and problem, then you can visit one of the websites that are available at playamo:, any one of the above resources can be a life-saver for the player that experiences problem gambling. remember, there’s no shame about it. if you feel that you have a problem, then contact the representatives of these websites right away for help., everything about playamo is great. from the wonderful, player-friendly atmosphere, to the thousands of available games – we believe that there is something here for every fan of online gambling. the online slots are made by some of the best developers on the market – you can play such titles as lucky lady’s clover slot, golden owl of athena slot, lucky blue slot, and many other slots. you can also play games live on the platform and they are very fun, too., it’s very easy to make deposits using visa, mastercard, ecopayz, neteller, and other payment options and payment methods available. the minimum deposit limits are very low and you can use some of the available withdrawal methods to get quick payouts. canadian players will be delighted to learn that they could get a big casino bonus, including a deposit match bonus, a friday reload bonus, a second deposit bonus, monday free spins bonus, and other bonuses for the high roller and casual players alike. all this means is that playamo offers one of the best casino user experiences that you can find on the internet., i really love that there are thousands of games at playamo! i’ve enjoyed playing some of the best slots here! – bill, vancouver, apart from the slots and the table games, as well as the live dealer games, there aren’t many other products of playamo to look forward to. but if you really want to have some fun in the niche gaming section, then you can try and play scratch cards, bitcoin games, and even action games. they’re here to spice things up and keep things fun for the gamblers., all in all, we feel that playamo deserves the title of being one of the best online casinos for canadian region. the availability of a high roller bonus as well as a big welcome bonus, makes the playamo platform for the players that wish to get some real money for free. not to be outdone, there are thousands of games that you can play here, and many of them are new. there are many different payment options such as mastercard, neteller, and ecopayz and it’s very simple and easy to make deposits and withdrawals. and what more could you ask? playamo remains one of our favorite casinos on the internet to date., playamo is owned by the company called dama n.v. this is a reputable company in the igaming industry and it owns and operates a few other legit internet casinos apart from playamo., yes, there are tournament like events that you can play if you’re a fan of slots – and you will get to compete against other players. the more you play, the higher up on the ladder you will go and you will be able to win real money prizes and a playamo bonus., in most cases, you will need to enter a bonus code to get the casino bonus at playamo. all the information you need is easy to find in the playamo bonus section. you will learn all about the bonus code, the deposit match bonus, the second deposit bonus, the friday reload bonus, and so on., in most cases, if you want to get a payout for winning money with the help of the welcome bonus at playamo, you will need to make a rollover of 50x. as mentioned previously, this is a relatively big rollover requirement and many players won’t see a real money profit by using the welcome bonus. regardless the bonuses are still a nice option to have for gambling and they may come to be very useful., most of the banking options have minimum deposit limit of $10. some payment methods have a maximum deposit limit of $4,000, while others have a limit of $10,000. it’s best to see and compare the different available new payment options for yourself and pick your preferred one., chief editor, james taylor is the chief editor of casinonow canada portal. this is the professional name of our bilingual go-to guy who adds value to all our work. he has been working as editor-in-chief at casionnow canada since 2018. previously, he studied at the university of quebec in montreal and worked in market research companies., canada, english, canada, french, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, switzerland, english, svizzera, iitaliano, nederland, , you are in safe hands, our recommended casinos have been certified by, sign up for +350 free spins!, by entering your e-mail here, you confirm your subscription to our newsletter. please be aware that all online players must be of legal age (18+). please confirm that you have read the t&cs and cookies policies, and that you accept the privacy terms., casino-now-canada.com website is certified by, casinonow’s mission is to provide content that aims to help all online casino players in canada. we provide reviews and comparisons between different online casinos according to unique rating criteria. as a result our team deal with different themes such as casino bonuses, payment methods, casino games, software companies and much more. we are independent experts who make useful and up-to-date guides for online players from canada., address 439 university avenue, toronto, ontario, m5g 1y8, phone no. +1 (877) 705-0707, copyright © 2017-2020 casino-now-canada.com all rights reserved][playamo casino review 2021, general information of playamo online casino, site preview, brief overview, pros and cons, bonus offers – a generous welcome package, loyalty and vip program, security & fairness, how to start in playamo casino, mobile casino, casino games, games variety, top 5 popular slots, top 5 table games, live dealers games, top 5 software providers, top 5 deposit/withdrawal methods, customer support, responsible gaming, casino user experience, player’s comment, other products of casino, conclusion, playamo casino – faq section, who owns playamo?, are there any slot races i can look forward to?, how can i claim the bonuses?, what’s the rollover requirement for the bonuses?, what’s the min deposit and max deposit limit for various payment methods?, über den autor]playamo casino review: c$1500+150fs welcome bonus free[playamo casino, what is the perfect formula when it comes to the best online casino, 100% deposit match up to $100, “firstdep”, 50% deposit match up to $200, 100 free spins, 50% deposit match up to $2,000, just playing the casino games, dama n.v., you can play here in no time,, thousands of games, casino-now-canada.com , address, phone no., casino-now-canada.com][about us, canada english canada french schweiz deutsche suisse français switzerland english svizzera iitaliano nederland, canada french, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, switzerland english, svizzera iitaliano, nederland, casinos, bonuses, slots, games, deposits, software, casinonow, , casino reviews, , playamo casino, a huge selection of games available made by top tier software providers, the customer support team is at its best, with live chat, email and phone support, playamo casino is a completely legitimate venture, fully licensed by the top igaming authorities., , , , , , , , , , , , , , , pros and cons, bonus offers – a generous welcome package, security & fairness, how to start in playamo casino, mobile casino, casino games, top 5 deposit/withdrawal methods, customer support, responsible gaming, casino user experience, other products of casino, conclusion, playamo casino – faq section, a huge selection of games available made by top tier software providers;, a great selection of bonuses and promotions, including monday free spins and friday reloads – free real money for the new and current players alike;, the customer support team is at its best, with live chat, email and phone support;, a variety of different methods for making payments available for the players to use, including full bitcoin support;, playamo casino is a completely legitimate venture, fully licensed by the top igaming authorities., a huge selection of games available made by top tier software providers;, a great selection of bonuses and promotions, including monday free spins and friday reloads – free real money for the new and current players alike;, the customer support team is at its best, with live chat, email and phone support;, a variety of different methods for making payments available for the players to use, including full bitcoin support;, playamo casino is a completely legitimate venture, fully licensed by the top igaming authorities., first deposit bonus in the form of a 100% deposit match up to $100, with additional 100 free spins over the course of the next five days after making your deposit. use promo code “firstdep”., the second deposit will give you a 50% deposit match up to $200. also, you will get 50 free spins on the lucky blue slot., get 100 free spins for the slot game journey flirt, every monday., if you’re a high-roller and you make a first deposit of at least $1,000, then playamo will reward you with a 50% deposit match up to $2,000., visit the official playamo casino website,, click the yellow sign up button in the top right corner of the screen,, follow the instructions and write the personal information that the casino requires from you,, log into your account,, visit the cashier page, select a payment method and add funds,, pick any of the available slot games or live dealer games to play., online slots,, blackjack,, roulette,, poker,, live blackjack,, live roulette,, live baccarat,, live casino hold’ em poker,, gamcare.org,, gordonhouse.org,, gamblersanonymous.org,, find your best boku microgaming payforit paysafecard visa real money casinos, boku, microgaming, payforit, paysafecard, visa, real money casinos, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, casino games online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots roulette blackjack live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots, video slots, classic slots, 3d slots, roulette, blackjack, live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, live 3 сard poker, live blackjack, live roulette, live holdem, live baccarat, deposits boku payforit paysafecard visa ukash zimpler neteller entropay, boku, payforit, paysafecard, visa, ukash, zimpler, neteller, entropay, mobile casinos android casino iphone casino ipad casino, android casino, iphone casino, ipad casino, guides gambling regulation territories saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia alberta ontario quebec atlantic provinces, gambling regulation, territories, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, alberta, ontario, quebec, atlantic provinces, canada english canada french schweiz deutsche suisse français switzerland english svizzera iitaliano nederland, canada french, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, switzerland english, svizzera iitaliano, nederland, about us james taylor privacy policy, james taylor, privacy policy, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, gambling regulation saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, best of real money casinos best payout new casino, real money casinos, best payout, new casino]