[find out about covid-19, covid-19 vaccines, and mayo clinic patient and visitor updates., featured conditions, , in a typical heart rhythm, a tiny cluster of cells at the sinus node sends out an electrical signal. the signal then travels through the atria to the atrioventricular (av) node and into the ventricles, causing them to contract and pump blood., , a heart arrhythmia (uh-rith-me-uh) is an irregular heartbeat. heart rhythm problems (heart arrhythmias) occur when the electrical signals that coordinate the heart's beats don't work properly. the faulty signaling causes the heart to beat too fast (tachycardia), too slow (bradycardia) or irregularly., heart arrhythmias may feel like a fluttering or racing heart and may be harmless. however, some heart arrhythmias may cause bothersome — sometimes even life-threatening — signs and symptoms., however, sometimes it's normal for a person to have a fast or slow heart rate. for example, the heart rate may increase with exercise or slow down during sleep., heart arrhythmia treatment may include medications, catheter procedures, implanted devices or surgery to control or eliminate fast, slow or irregular heartbeats. a heart-healthy lifestyle can help prevent heart damage that can trigger certain heart arrhythmias., in general, heart arrhythmias are grouped by the speed of the heart rate. for example:, types of tachycardias include:, although a heart rate below 60 beats a minute while at rest is considered bradycardia, a low resting heart rate doesn't always signal a problem. if you're physically fit, your heart may still be able to pump enough blood to the body with fewer than 60 beats a minute at rest., if you have a slow heart rate and your heart isn't pumping enough blood, you may have a type of bradycardia. types of bradycardias include:, premature heartbeats are extra beats that occur one at a time, sometimes in patterns that alternate with the normal heart beat. the extra beats may come from the top chamber of the heart (premature atrial contractions) or the bottom chamber (premature ventricular contractions)., a premature heartbeat may feel like your heart skipped a beat. these extra beats are generally not concerning, and they seldom mean you have a more serious condition. still, a premature beat can trigger a longer-lasting arrhythmia, especially in people with heart disease. occasionally, very frequent premature beats that last for several years may lead to a weak heart., premature heartbeats may occur when resting. sometimes premature heartbeats are caused by stress, strenuous exercise or stimulants, such as caffeine or nicotine., heart arrhythmias may not cause any signs or symptoms. a doctor may notice the irregular heartbeat when examining you for another health reason., in general, signs and symptoms of arrhythmias may include:, other symptoms may include:, if you feel like your heart is beating too fast or too slowly, or it's skipping a beat, make an appointment to see a doctor. seek immediate medical help if you have shortness of breath, weakness, dizziness, lightheadedness, fainting or near fainting, and chest pain or discomfort., a type of arrhythmia called ventricular fibrillation can cause a dramatic drop in blood pressure. collapse can occur within seconds and soon the person's breathing and pulse will stop. if this occurs, follow these steps:, there is a problem with information submitted for this request. review/update the information highlighted below and resubmit the form., sign up for free, and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips and current health topics, like covid-19, plus expertise on managing health., erroremail field is required, errorinclude a valid email address, to provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, and understand which information is beneficial, we may combine your email and website usage information with other information we have about you. if you are a mayo clinic patient, this could include protected health information. if we combine this information with your protected health information, we will treat all of that information as protected health information and will only use or disclose that information as set forth in our notice of privacy practices. you may opt-out of email communications at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link in the e-mail., , our housecall e-newsletter will keep you up-to-date on the latest health information., please, try again in a couple of minutes, to understand the cause of heart arrhythmias, it may be helpful to know how the heart typically works., the heart is made of four chambers — two upper chambers (atria) and two lower chambers (ventricles)., the heart's rhythm is normally controlled by a natural pacemaker (the sinus node) in the right upper chamber (atrium). the sinus node sends electrical signals that normally start each heartbeat. these electrical signals move across the atria, causing the heart muscles to squeeze (contract) and pump blood into the ventricles., next, the signals arrive at a cluster of cells called the av node, where they slow down. this slight delay allows the ventricles to fill with blood. when the electrical signals reach the ventricles, the chambers contract and pump blood to the lungs or to the rest of the body., in a healthy heart, this heart signaling process usually goes smoothly, resulting in a normal resting heart rate of 60 to 100 beats a minute., things that can cause an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia) include:, things that may increase the risk of heart arrhythmias include:, complications depend on the type of arrhythmia. in general, complications of heart arrhythmias may include stroke, sudden death and heart failure., heart arrhythmias are associated with an increased risk of blood clots. if a clot breaks loose, it can travel from the heart to the brain, causing a stroke. blood thinners can lower the risk of stroke related to atrial fibrillation and other arrhythmias. your doctor will determine if a blood-thinning medication is right for you., if an arrhythmia is causing heart failure symptoms, methods to control the heart rate may improve heart function., lifestyle changes to reduce the risk of heart disease may help prevent heart arrhythmias. a heart-healthy lifestyle includes:, , heart arrhythmia care at mayo clinic, mayo clinic does not endorse companies or products. advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission., check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from mayo clinic press., any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy linked below., , a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.org," "mayo clinic healthy living," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research., , this site complies with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here., ][covid-19: advice, updates and vaccine options, heart arrhythmia, overview, typical heartbeat, typical heartbeat, types, fast heartbeat (tachycardia), slow heartbeat (bradycardia), premature heartbeats, symptoms, when to see a doctor, get the latest health information from mayo clinic’s experts., thank you for subscribing, sorry something went wrong with your subscription, , causes, how does the heart beat?, risk factors, complications, prevention, , related, associated procedures, news from mayo clinic, mayo clinic in rochester, minn., has been recognized as one of the top cardiology & heart surgery hospitals in the nation for 2021-2022 by u.s. news & world report., heart arrhythmia, advertisement, mayo clinic press]heart arrhythmia - symptoms and causes - mayo clinic[featured conditions, atrial fibrillation (a-fib)., atrial flutter., supraventricular tachycardia., ventricular fibrillation., ventricular tachycardia., sick sinus syndrome., conduction block., coronary artery disease, other heart problems and previous heart surgery., high blood pressure., congenital heart disease., thyroid disease., obstructive sleep apnea., electrolyte imbalance., certain drugs and supplements., excessive alcohol., caffeine, nicotine or illegal drug use., advertising & sponsorship, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices][request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, english español português العربية 简体中文, español, português, العربية, 简体中文, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, care at mayo clinic care at mayo clinic appointments locations patient & visitor guide international services medical departments & centers doctors & medical staff patient online services billing & insurance clinical trials international business collaborations about mayo clinic contact us, care at mayo clinic, appointments, locations, patient & visitor guide, international services, medical departments & centers, doctors & medical staff, patient online services, billing & insurance, clinical trials, international business collaborations, about mayo clinic, contact us, health information health information diseases & conditions a-z symptoms a-z tests & procedures a-z drugs & supplements a-z health books healthy living program mayo clinic health letter mayo clinic voice apps healthy lifestyle featured conditions brain tumor, breast cancer, colon cancer, congenital heart disease, heart arrhythmia. see more conditions., health information, diseases & conditions a-z, symptoms a-z, tests & procedures a-z, drugs & supplements a-z, health books, healthy living program, mayo clinic health letter, mayo clinic voice apps, healthy lifestyle, for medical professionals for medical professionals provider relations carelink online referrals continuing medical education mayo clinic laboratories askmayoexpert video center journals and publications, for medical professionals, provider relations, carelink online referrals, continuing medical education, mayo clinic laboratories, askmayoexpert, video center, journals and publications, research research research faculty laboratories core facilities centers & programs departments & divisions clinical trials institutional review board postdoctoral fellowships training grant programs, research, research faculty, laboratories, core facilities, centers & programs, departments & divisions, clinical trials, institutional review board, postdoctoral fellowships, training grant programs, college of medicine and science college of medicine and science mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences mayo clinic alix school of medicine mayo clinic school of continuous professional development mayo clinic school of graduate medical education mayo clinic school of health sciences, college of medicine and science, mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences, mayo clinic alix school of medicine, mayo clinic school of continuous professional development, mayo clinic school of graduate medical education, mayo clinic school of health sciences, giving to mayo clinic giving to mayo clinic give now philanthropy in action frequently asked questions contact us to give, giving to mayo clinic, give now, philanthropy in action, frequently asked questions, contact us to give, request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, twitter facebook pinterest youtube, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, tachycardia (tak-ih-kahr-dee-uh) is a fast heart. the resting heart rate is greater than 100 beats a minute., bradycardia (brad-e-kahr-dee-uh) is a slow heartbeat. the resting heart rate is less than 60 beats a minute., atrial fibrillation (a-fib). chaotic heart signaling causes a rapid, uncoordinated heart rate. the condition may be temporary, but some a-fib episodes may not stop unless treated. a-fib is associated with serious complications such as stroke., atrial flutter. atrial flutter is similar to a-fib, but heartbeats are more organized. atrial flutter is also linked to stroke., supraventricular tachycardia. supraventricular tachycardia is a broad term that includes arrhythmias that start above the lower heart chambers (ventricles). supraventricular tachycardia causes episodes of a pounding heartbeat (palpitations) that begin and end abruptly., ventricular fibrillation. this type of arrhythmia occurs when rapid, chaotic electrical signals cause the lower heart chambers (ventricles) to quiver instead of contacting in a coordinated way that pumps blood to the rest of the body. this serious problem can lead to death if a normal heart rhythm isn't restored within minutes. most people who have ventricular fibrillation have an underlying heart disease or have experienced serious trauma., ventricular tachycardia. this rapid, regular heart rate starts with faulty electrical signals in the lower heart chambers (ventricles). the rapid heart rate doesn't allow the ventricles to properly fill with blood. as a result, the heart can't pump enough blood to the body. ventricular tachycardia may not cause serious problems in people with an otherwise healthy heart. in those with heart disease, ventricular tachycardia can be a medical emergency that requires immediate medical treatment., sick sinus syndrome. the sinus node is responsible for setting the pace of the heart. if it doesn't work properly, the heart rate may alternate between too slow (bradycardia) and too fast (tachycardia). sick sinus syndrome can be caused by scarring near the sinus node that's slowing, disrupting or blocking the travel of impulses. sick sinus syndrome is most common among older adults., conduction block. a block of the heart's electrical pathways can cause the signals that trigger the heartbeats to slow down or stop. some blocks may cause no signs or symptoms, and others may cause skipped beats or bradycardia., a fluttering in the chest, a racing heartbeat (tachycardia), a slow heartbeat (bradycardia), chest pain, shortness of breath, anxiety, fatigue, lightheadedness or dizziness, sweating, fainting (syncope) or near fainting, call 911 or the emergency number in your area., if there's no one nearby trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr), provide hands-only cpr. push hard and fast on the center of the chest at a rate of 100 to 120 compressions a minute until paramedics arrive. you don't need to do rescue breathing., if you or someone nearby knows cpr, start cpr. cpr can help maintain blood flow to the organs until an electrical shock (defibrillation) can be given., if an automated external defibrillator (aed) is available nearby, have someone get the device and follow the instructions. an aed is a portable defibrillation device that can deliver a shock that may restart heartbeats. no training is required to operate an aed. the aed will tell you what to do. it's programmed to allow a shock only when appropriate., current heart attack or scarring from a previous heart attack, blocked arteries in the heart (coronary artery disease), changes to the heart's structure, such as from cardiomyopathy, diabetes, high blood pressure, infection with covid-19, overactive thyroid gland (hyperthyroidism), sleep apnea, underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism), certain medications, including cold and allergy drugs bought without a prescription, drinking too much alcohol or caffeine, drug abuse, genetics, smoking, stress or anxiety, coronary artery disease, other heart problems and previous heart surgery. narrowed heart arteries, a heart attack, abnormal heart valves, prior heart surgery, heart failure, cardiomyopathy and other heart damage are risk factors for almost any kind of arrhythmia., high blood pressure. this condition increases the risk of developing coronary artery disease. it may also cause the walls of the left lower heart chamber (left ventricle) to become stiff and thick, which can change how electrical signals travel through the heart., congenital heart disease. being born with a heart condition may affect the heart's rhythm., thyroid disease. having an overactive or underactive thyroid gland can raise the risk of irregular heartbeats., obstructive sleep apnea. this condition causes pauses in breathing during sleep. it can lead to a slow heartbeat (bradycardia) and irregular heartbeats, including atrial fibrillation., electrolyte imbalance. substances in the blood called electrolytes — such as potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium — help trigger and send electrical impulses in the heart. an imbalance in electrolytes — for example, if they are too low or too high — can interfere with heart signaling and lead to irregular heartbeats., certain drugs and supplements. some prescription drugs and certain cough and cold medications bought without a prescription can cause arrhythmias., excessive alcohol. drinking too much alcohol can affect the electrical impulses in your heart and can increase the chance of developing atrial fibrillation., caffeine, nicotine or illegal drug use. caffeine, nicotine and other stimulants can cause your heart to beat faster and may lead to the development of more-serious arrhythmias. illegal drugs, such as amphetamines and cocaine, may greatly affect the heart and cause many types of arrhythmias or sudden death due to ventricular fibrillation., eating a heart-healthy diet, staying physically active, maintaining a healthy weight, not smoking, limiting or avoiding caffeine and alcohol, reducing stress, as intense stress and anger can cause heart rhythm problems, using medications as directed and telling your doctor about all the medicines you take, including those bought without a prescription, kusumoto fm, et al. 2018 acc/aha/hrs guideline on the evaluation and management of patients with bradycardia and cardiac conduction delay: a report of the american college of cardiology/american heart association task force on clinical practice guidelines and the heart rhythm society. journal of the american college of cardiology. 2018; doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2018.10.044., arrhythmia. national heart, lung, and blood institute. https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/arrhythmia. accessed aug. 4, 2021., how the heart works. national heart, lung, and blood institute. https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/how-heart-works. accessed aug. 4, 2021., panchal ar, et al. 2018 american heart association focused update on advanced cardiovascular life support use of antiarrhythmic drugs during and immediately after cardiac arrest. circulation. 2018; doi:10.1161/cir.0000000000000613., overview of arrhythmias. merck manual professional version. https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/cardiovascular-disorders/arrhythmias-and-conduction-disorders/overview-of-arrhythmias. accessed aug. 4, 2021., zipes dp, et al. assessment of the patient with a cardiac arrhythmia. in: cardiac electrophysiology: from cell to bedside. 7th ed. philadelphia, pa.: elsevier; 2018. https://www.clinicalkey.com. accessed aug. 4, 2021., bonow ro, et al., eds. diagnosis of cardiac arrhythmias. in: braunwald's heart disease: a textbook of cardiovascular medicine. 11th ed. philadelphia, pa.: saunders elsevier; 2019. https://www.clinicalkey.com. accessed aug. 4, 2021., cronin em, et al. 2019 hrs/ehra/aphrs/lahrs expert consensus statement on catheter ablation of ventricular arrhythmias. european society of cardiology. 2019;21:1143., ferri ff. atrial fibrillation. in: ferri's clinical advisor 2019. philadelphia, pa.: elsevier, 2019. https://www.clinicalkey.com. accessed aug. 4, 2021., lévy s, et al. arrhythmia management for the primary care clinician. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. accessed aug. 4, 2021., atrial fibrillation. national heart, lung, and blood institute. https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/atrial-fibrillation. accessed aug. 4, 2021., long b, et al. cardiovascular complications in covid-19. american journal of emergency medicine 2020; doi:10.1016/j.ajem.2020.04.048., braswell-pickering ea. allscripts epsi. mayo clinic. june 29, 2021., asirvatham sj (expert opinion). mayo clinic, rochester, minn. july 27, 2019., long qt syndrome. national heart, lung, and blood institute. https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/long-qt-syndrome. accessed aug. 4, 2021., lee r. surgical ablation to prevent recurrent atrial fibrillation. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. accessed aug. 4, 2021., bashir mu, et al. modulation of the autonomic nervous system through mind and body practices as a treatment for atrial fibrillation. reviews in cardiovascular medicine. 2019; doi:10.31083/j.rcm.2019.03.517., noseworthy pa (expert opinion). mayo clinic; sept. 17, 2021., tisdale je, et al. drug-induced arrhythmias: a scientific statement from the american heart association. circulation. 2020; doi:10.1161/cir.0000000000000905., automated external defibrillators: do you need an aed?, cardiac catheter ablation, home automated external defibrillator (aed), pacemakers, defibrillator, screenings of newborns and athletes for genetic heart disease, ventricular tachycardia, ablation therapy, cardiac ablation, cardioversion, coronary bypass surgery, echocardiogram, electrocardiogram (ecg or ekg), ep study, holter monitor, implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (icds), implantable loop recorder: a heart monitoring device, pacemaker, stress test, tilt table test, mayo clinic minute: watch for these heart arrhythmia red flags dec. 07, 2021, 04:00 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q&a podcast: heart rhythm problems need attention oct. 15, 2021, 01:48 p.m. cdt, heart rhythm disorders: mayo clinic healthcare expert shares 5 things it's important to know sept. 21, 2021, 02:00 p.m. cdt, sharing mayo clinic: getting to the heart of the matter aug. 29, 2021, 02:37 p.m. cdt, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, policy, opportunities, ad choices, new – the essential diabetes book - mayo clinic pressnew – the essential diabetes book, cook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes - mayo clinic presscook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes, new – mayo clinic on hearing and balance - mayo clinic pressnew – mayo clinic on hearing and balance, free mayo clinic diet assessment - mayo clinic pressfree mayo clinic diet assessment, mayo clinic health letter - free book - mayo clinic pressmayo clinic health letter - free book, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, heart arrhythmia, request appointment, contact us, about mayo clinic, employees, find a job, site map, about this site, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, terms and conditions, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices, notice of nondiscrimination, manage cookies]