[find out about covid-19, covid-19 vaccines, and mayo clinic patient and visitor updates., featured conditions, congenital heart disease is one or more problems with the heart's structure that exist since birth. congenital means that you're born with the condition. congenital heart disease in adults and children can change the way blood flows through the heart., there are many different types of congenital heart defects. this article focuses on congenital heart disease in adults., some types of congenital heart disease may be mild. but complex defects may cause life-threatening complications. however, advances in diagnosis and treatment continue to improve survival for those with congenital heart disease., people with congenital heart disease need lifelong medical care. treatment may include regular checkups (watchful waiting), medications or surgery. if you have adult congenital heart disease, ask your health care provider how often you need a checkup., for some people, signs or symptoms of congenital heart disease aren't noticed until adulthood. symptoms may return years after a congenital heart defect is treated., common congenital heart disease symptoms in adults include:, if you're having worrisome symptoms, such as chest pain or shortness of breath, seek emergency medical attention., if you have signs or symptoms of congenital heart disease or were treated for a congenital heart defect as a child, make an appointment to see your health care provider., , a typical heart has two upper and two lower chambers. the upper chambers, the right and left atria, receive incoming blood. the lower chambers, the more muscular right and left ventricles, pump blood out of the heart. the heart valves, which keep blood flowing in the right direction, are gates at the chamber openings., , researchers aren't sure what causes most types of congenital heart disease. some congenital heart diseases are passed down through families (inherited)., to understand congenital heart disease, it helps to know how the heart typically works., congenital heart disease can affect any of these heart structures, including the arteries, valves, chambers and the wall of tissue that separates the chambers (septum)., certain environmental and genetic risk factors might play a role in the development of congenital heart disease, including:, congenital heart disease can contribute to other health concerns later in life. complications may occur years after a congenital heart defect is treated., complications of congenital heart disease in adults include:, it may be possible to have a successful pregnancy with mild congenital heart disease. a care provider may tell you not to get pregnant if you have a complex congenital heart defect., before becoming pregnant, talk to your health care provider about the possible risks and complications. together you can discuss and plan for any special care needed during pregnancy., some types of congenital heart disease occur in families (inherited). if you have or someone in your family has congenital heart disease, screening by a genetic counselor may help determine the risk of certain heart defects in future children., , congenital heart disease in adults care at mayo clinic, mayo clinic does not endorse companies or products. advertising revenue supports our not-for-profit mission., check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from mayo clinic press., any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy linked below., , a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.org," "mayo clinic healthy living," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research., , this site complies with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here., ][covid-19: advice, updates and vaccine options, congenital heart disease in adults, overview, products & services, types, symptoms, when to see a doctor, causes, chambers and valves of the heart, chambers and valves of the heart, risk factors, complications, adult congenital heart disease and pregnancy, prevention, , related, associated procedures, news from mayo clinic, products & services, congenital heart disease in adults, advertisement, mayo clinic press]congenital heart disease in adults - symptoms and causes - mayo clinic[featured conditions, genetics., german measles (rubella)., diabetes., medications., alcohol., smoking., irregular heartbeats (arrhythmias)., heart infection (endocarditis)., stroke., high blood pressure in the lung arteries (pulmonary hypertension)., heart failure., advertising & sponsorship, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices][request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, english español português العربية 简体中文, español, português, العربية, 简体中文, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, care at mayo clinic care at mayo clinic appointments locations patient & visitor guide international services medical departments & centers doctors & medical staff patient online services billing & insurance clinical trials international business collaborations about mayo clinic contact us, care at mayo clinic, appointments, locations, patient & visitor guide, international services, medical departments & centers, doctors & medical staff, patient online services, billing & insurance, clinical trials, international business collaborations, about mayo clinic, contact us, health information health information diseases & conditions a-z symptoms a-z tests & procedures a-z drugs & supplements a-z health books healthy living program mayo clinic health letter mayo clinic voice apps healthy lifestyle featured conditions brain tumor, breast cancer, colon cancer, congenital heart disease, heart arrhythmia. see more conditions., health information, diseases & conditions a-z, symptoms a-z, tests & procedures a-z, drugs & supplements a-z, health books, healthy living program, mayo clinic health letter, mayo clinic voice apps, healthy lifestyle, for medical professionals for medical professionals provider relations carelink online referrals continuing medical education mayo clinic laboratories askmayoexpert video center journals and publications, for medical professionals, provider relations, carelink online referrals, continuing medical education, mayo clinic laboratories, askmayoexpert, video center, journals and publications, research research research faculty laboratories core facilities centers & programs departments & divisions clinical trials institutional review board postdoctoral fellowships training grant programs, research, research faculty, laboratories, core facilities, centers & programs, departments & divisions, clinical trials, institutional review board, postdoctoral fellowships, training grant programs, college of medicine and science college of medicine and science mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences mayo clinic alix school of medicine mayo clinic school of continuous professional development mayo clinic school of graduate medical education mayo clinic school of health sciences, college of medicine and science, mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences, mayo clinic alix school of medicine, mayo clinic school of continuous professional development, mayo clinic school of graduate medical education, mayo clinic school of health sciences, giving to mayo clinic giving to mayo clinic give now philanthropy in action frequently asked questions contact us to give, giving to mayo clinic, give now, philanthropy in action, frequently asked questions, contact us to give, request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to patient account, twitter facebook pinterest youtube, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, book: mayo clinic family health book, 5th edition, newsletter: mayo clinic health letter — digital edition, atrial septal defect (asd), atrioventricular canal defect, bicuspid aortic valve, coarctation of the aorta, congenital heart defects in children, congenital mitral valve anomalies, double-outlet right ventricle, ebstein anomaly, eisenmenger syndrome, hypoplastic left heart syndrome, long qt syndrome, partial anomalous pulmonary venous return, patent ductus arteriosus (pda), patent foramen ovale, pulmonary atresia, pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum, pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect, pulmonary valve stenosis, tetralogy of fallot, total anomalous pulmonary venous return (tapvr), transposition of the great arteries, tricuspid atresia, truncus arteriosus, vascular rings, ventricular septal defect (vsd), wolff-parkinson-white (wpw) syndrome, irregular heart rhythms (arrhythmias), blue skin, lips and fingernails (cyanosis), shortness of breath, feeling tired very quickly with activity, swelling of body tissue or organs (edema), the heart is divided into chambers — two upper chambers (atria) and two lower chambers (ventricles)., the right side of the heart moves blood to the lungs through blood vessels (pulmonary arteries)., in the lungs, blood picks up oxygen and then returns to the left side of your heart through the pulmonary veins., the left side of the heart then pumps the blood through the aorta and out to the rest of the body., genetics. congenital heart disease appears to run in families (inherited). it's associated with many genetic syndromes. for instance, children with down syndrome often have congenital heart defects. genetic testing can detect down syndrome and some other genetic conditions while a baby is still in the mother's womb., german measles (rubella). having rubella during pregnancy may affect how the baby's heart develops while in the womb., diabetes. having type 1 or type 2 diabetes during pregnancy also may affect a baby's heart development. gestational diabetes generally doesn't increase the risk of congenital heart disease., medications. taking certain medications while pregnant can cause congenital heart disease and other birth defects. medications linked to heart defects include lithium for bipolar disorder and isotretinoin (claravis, myorisan, others), which is used to treat acne. always tell your health care provider about the medications you take., alcohol. drinking alcohol while pregnant has been linked to an increased risk of heart defects in the baby., smoking. if you smoke, quit. smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of congenital heart defects in the baby., irregular heartbeats (arrhythmias). faulty heart signaling causes the heart to beat too fast, too slowly or irregularly. in some people, severe arrhythmias may cause stroke or sudden cardiac death if not treated. scar tissue in the heart from previous surgeries can contribute to this complication., heart infection (endocarditis). bacteria or other germs can enter the bloodstream and move to the inner lining of the heart (endocardium). untreated, this infection can damage or destroy the heart valves or cause a stroke. if you are at high risk of endocarditis, your care provider may recommend taking antibiotics one hour before dental cleanings. regular dental checkups are important. healthy gums and teeth reduce the risk that bacteria will enter the bloodstream., stroke. a congenital heart defect can allow a blood clot to pass through the heart and travel to the brain, where it reduces or blocks blood supply., high blood pressure in the lung arteries (pulmonary hypertension). some congenital heart defects send more blood to the lungs, causing pressure to build. this eventually causes the heart muscle to weaken and sometimes to fail., heart failure. heart failure (congestive heart failure) means the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs., about congenital heart defects. american heart association. https://www.heart.org/en/health-topics/congenital-heart-defects/about-congenital-heart-defects. accessed feb. 11, 2022., congenital heart defects. national heart, lung, and blood institute. https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/congenital-heart-defects. accessed feb. 11, 2022., stout kk, et al. 2018 aha/acc guideline for the management of adults with congenital heart disease: a report of the american college of cardiology/american heart association task force on clinical practice guidelines. circulation. 2019; doi:10.1161/cir.0000000000000603., kopel j. congenital heart disease: prenatal screening, diagnosis, and management. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. accessed feb. 14, 2022., living with a congenital heart defect. centers for disease control and prevention. http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/heartdefects/living.html. accessed april 2, 2020., overview of congenital cardiovascular anomalies. merck manual professional version. https://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/pediatrics/congenital_cardiovascular_anomalies/overview_of_congenital_cardiovascular_anomalies.html. accessed april 2, 2020., riggins e. allscripts epsi. mayo clinic, rochester, minn. april 1, 2020., isotretinoin. facts & comparisons eanswers. https://www.wolterskluwercdi.com/facts-comparisons-online. accessed march 31, 2020., connolly hm. medical management of cyanotic congenital heart disease in adults. https://www.uptodate.com/contents/search. accessed feb. 14, 2022., puchalski md, et al. guidelines for performing a comprehensive transesophageal echocardiographic examination in children and all patients with congenital heart disease: recommendations from the american society of echocardiography. journal of the american society of echocardiography. 2019; doi:10.1016/j.echo.2018.08.016., living with a congenital heart defect. cdc. https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/heartdefects/living.html. accessed feb. 14, 2022., pierpont me, et al. genetic basis for congenital heart disease: revisited: a scientific statement from the american heart association. circulation. 2018; doi:10.1161/cir.0000000000000606., adult congenital heart defects, adult congenital heart disease: what patients and families should know, infographic: congenital heart disease and lifelong care, kinser's story, robotic or minimally invasive cardiac surgery for adult-adolescent congenital heart disease, aortic valve repair and aortic valve replacement, cardiac catheterization, chest x-rays, echocardiogram, electrocardiogram (ecg or ekg), heart transplant, stress test, mayo clinic healthcare adds testing, treatment for people with inherited heart conditions   april 04, 2022, 09:00 a.m. cdt, mayo clinic q and a: congenital heart disease revision surgery aug. 24, 2021, 12:29 p.m. cdt, mayo clinic q and a: what is a bicuspid aortic valve? may 25, 2021, 04:42 p.m. cdt, book: mayo clinic family health book, 5th edition, newsletter: mayo clinic health letter — digital edition, symptoms & causes, diagnosis & treatment, doctors & departments, care at mayo clinic, policy, opportunities, ad choices, new – the essential diabetes book - mayo clinic pressnew – the essential diabetes book, cook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes - mayo clinic presscook smart, eat well – 2 free recipes, new – mayo clinic on hearing and balance - mayo clinic pressnew – mayo clinic on hearing and balance, free mayo clinic diet assessment - mayo clinic pressfree mayo clinic diet assessment, mayo clinic health letter - free book - mayo clinic pressmayo clinic health letter - free book, patient care & health information, diseases & conditions, congenital heart disease in adults, request appointment, contact us, about mayo clinic, employees, find a job, site map, about this site, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, terms and conditions, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices, notice of nondiscrimination, manage cookies]