[academics section overview, search and filter our more than 400 programs., admissions and tuition section overview, our programs have a wide range of admissions requirements, application processes, costs, benefits and financial aid options. find your program to see the most relevant information., campus and community section overview, our growing campus in the sun-drenched desert southwest., team medicine and science in the state's largest city., where it all began more than 150 years ago., serving more than 60 communities in minnesota, wisconsin and iowa., about section overview, learning environment, research and patient care, rankings, faculty, and vision and values,  , we focus on clinical training that redefines medical education. with a 2.1:1 full-time faculty-to-student ratio, our faculty members will know you by name — and you’ll be surrounded by learning opportunities that you won’t find anywhere else., our students don’t have to wait to make an impact in health care. they start here., admissions and application process details, costs, scholarships, and loans, why medical students love learning and training at mayo clinic, fourth-year medical students recently celebrated match day, and opened their envelopes to discover where they're headed next for their residency training., get a sneak peek at our match day events at mayo clinic alix school of medicine in arizona, florida, and minnesota.,  , find unparalleled clinical and research opportunities at the nation's best hospital. our small class sizes, emphasis on student well-being, and three campus locations make our program unlike any other., train as a physician-scientist who excels both at the bedside and in the laboratory. collaborate with our 270+ scientific faculty on basic, translational, clinical, and epidemiological research., best medical school in the nation for research (u.s. news & world report, 2022-2023), best hospital in the nation and top-ranked in 14 specialties (u.s. news & world report, 2021-2022), one school, three world-class university campuses, and diverse patient populations and research opportunities. pick sunny, snowy, or both., rochester offers four seasons of recreation and is full of energy and advancement. students enjoy the green space, variety of activities, family-friendly quality of life, and the nearby twin cities., under sunny skies for 300+ days a year, students take advantage of a great foodie scene, nightlife, live music, and extensive outdoor activities within a major metro area., jacksonville is the largest city in florida. when students aren’t studying, they’re enjoying the vibrant art scene, jazz festivals, sports and recreation options, and 20+ miles of beaches., 200 first st. sw rochester, mn 55905 contact us  visit, rochester, minnesota • jacksonville, florida • phoenix/scottsdale, arizona, , any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policies linked below., a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.org," "mayo clinic healthy living," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research., © 1998-2022 mayo foundation for medical education and research. all rights reserved.][mayo clinic alix school of medicine, lead. transform. heal., take your next step, apply to our m.d. program, tuition and financial aid, choosing mayo clinic alix school of medicine, match day 2022 at mayo clinic alix school of medicine, our programs, m.d. program, m.d.-ph.d. program, a top-ranked medical school and hospital, explore our campuses and communities, rochester, minnesota, phoenix, arizona, jacksonville, florida, college of medicine & science, campus locations, schools, more from mayo clinic]mayo clinic alix school of medicine - mayo clinic college of medicine & science[][home, academics academics section overview academic programs residencies and fellowships 300+ gme programs in all medical and surgical specialties health sciences education 140+ programs, internships, and rotations in 50 health sciences fields mayo clinic alix school of medicine m.d. and m.d.-ph.d. degrees biomedical research training ph.d. and master's degrees in biomedical sciences continuous professional development continuing education courses for medical professionals visiting medical student clerkships elective clinical rotations for visiting medical students non-clinical internships internships and other programs offered at our florida campus learner services and support academic support and well-being diversity, equity, and inclusion libraries simulation centers working in health care explore health care careers find your fit using our career library what sets us apart choosing mayo clinic learning environment, research and patient care, rankings, faculty see all programs search and filter our more than 400 programs. browse programs, residencies and fellowships, 300+ gme programs in all medical and surgical specialties, health sciences education, 140+ programs, internships, and rotations in 50 health sciences fields, mayo clinic alix school of medicine, m.d. and m.d.-ph.d. degrees, biomedical research training, ph.d. and master's degrees in biomedical sciences, continuous professional development, continuing education courses for medical professionals, visiting medical student clerkships, elective clinical rotations for visiting medical students, non-clinical internships, internships and other programs offered at our florida campus, academic support and well-being, diversity, equity, and inclusion, libraries, simulation centers, explore health care careers, find your fit using our career library, choosing mayo clinic, learning environment, research and patient care, rankings, faculty, admissions and tuition admissions and tuition section overview residencies and fellowships admissions • stipend and benefits health sciences education admissions and tuition mayo clinic alix school of medicine admissions • tuition and aid biomedical research training admissions and benefits visiting medical student clerkships admissions admissions and financial aid support financial aid how to apply for aid, services we provide, grants, scholarships, and loans registrar academic records, education verifications, and transcript requests immigration and visas visa classifications, requirements, and forms for international applicants get in touch contact contact our admissions and recruitment staff visit experience our campus environment through a virtual visit our programs have a wide range of admissions requirements, application processes, costs, benefits and financial aid options. find your program to see the most relevant information. browse programs, admissions • stipend and benefits, admissions and tuition, admissions • tuition and aid, admissions and benefits, admissions, financial aid, how to apply for aid, services we provide, grants, scholarships, and loans, registrar, academic records, education verifications, and transcript requests, immigration and visas, visa classifications, requirements, and forms for international applicants, contact, contact our admissions and recruitment staff, visit, experience our campus environment through a virtual visit, campus and community campus and community section overview phoenix/scottsdale, arizona our growing campus in the sun-drenched desert southwest. explore jacksonville, florida team medicine and science in the state's largest city. explore rochester, minnesota where it all began more than 150 years ago. explore mayo clinic health system serving more than 60 communities in minnesota, wisconsin and iowa. explore, about about section overview college profile facts and statistics history commencement higher learning commission accreditation consumer information and disclosures headlines and highlights news center centers and services alumni center six alumni associations for our graduates education services for organizations customized advising services for educational organizations academy of educational excellence resources, recognition, and support for mayo clinic faculty and educators choosing mayo clinic learning environment, research and patient care, rankings, faculty, and vision and values learn more, facts and statistics, history, commencement, higher learning commission accreditation, consumer information and disclosures, news center, alumni center, six alumni associations for our graduates, education services for organizations, customized advising services for educational organizations, academy of educational excellence, resources, recognition, and support for mayo clinic faculty and educators, covid-19 updates, log in student/faculty portal medhub blackboard continuous professional development, student/faculty portal, medhub, blackboard, continuous professional development, patient care research, student/faculty portal, medhub, blackboard, continuous professional development, overview, m.d. program, choosing mayo clinic, blog, contact, mayo clinic alix school of medicine, mayo clinic school of graduate medical education, mayo clinic school of health sciences, mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences, mayo clinic school of continuous professional development, patient care and health information, research labs and clinical trials, giving and philanthropy, for medical professionals, job openings, terms and conditions, privacy policy, privacy addendum, notice of nondiscrimination]