[presidential libraries, , learn about presidential libraries and museums presidential libraries and museums promote understanding of the presidency and the american experience. we preserve and provide access to historical materials, support research, and create interactive programs and exhibits that educate and inspire., visit the presidential libraries and museums presidential libraries and museums present vast archives of documents, museums full of important presidential artifacts, interesting educational and public programs, and informative web sites., research presidential documents presidential libraries and museums are repositories for the papers, records and historical materials of the presidents. we work to ensure that these irreplaceable items are preserved and made available for the widest possible use by researchers., explore public and education programs presidential libraries and museums give you the chance to see, hear, and participate in the events that changed our lives and made us who we are as a nation., white house transition project, former white house staff discuss the presidential administrations from richard nixon to william j. clinton., , celebrate the 100th birthday of betty ford., , step into the oval office and take on the role of one of the president’s most trusted advisers., featured presidential documents related to americans with disabilities.,  , this page was last reviewed on september 2, 2021. contact us with questions or comments., , contact us · accessibility · privacy policy · freedom of information act · no fear act · usa.gov, the u.s. national archives and records administration 1-86-nara-nara or 1-866-272-6272][main menu, presidential libraries and museums, visit the libraries online, connect with us, americans with disabilities act, archives.gov, information for…, publications, orgs. & offices, about us, i want to…, participate, resources, shop online, connect with us]presidential libraries and museums of the national archives | national archives[learn about presidential libraries and museums, visit the presidential libraries and museums, research presidential documents, explore public and education programs, white house transition project, celebrate the 100th birthday of betty ford., step into the oval office, and take on the role of one of the president’s most trusted advisers.][research our records, veterans' service records, educator resources, visit us, america's founding documents, learn about presidential libraries and museums, visit presidential libraries and museums, events, exhibits, research presidential materials, get involved, search presidential libraries and museums websites, herbert hoover library, franklin d. roosevelt library, harry s. truman library, dwight d. eisenhower library, john f. kennedy library, lyndon b. johnson library, richard nixon library, gerald r. ford library, jimmy carter library, ronald reagan library, george bush library, william j. clinton library, george w. bush library, barack obama library, donald j. trump library, facebook, twitter, tumblr, citizen archivists, federal employees, genealogists, members of congress, preservation, records managers, the press, today's federal register, prologue magazine, subscribe to email newsletters, all publications, center for legislative archives, federal records center, office of the inspector general, presidential libraries, staff directory, what is the national archives?, doing business with us, plans and reports, open government, our plain language activities, get my military record, plan a research visit, visit the museum, view online exhibits, apply for a grant, attend an event, donate to the archives, work at the archives, volunteer at the archives, a-z index, america's founding docs, contact us, en español, faqs, forms, visit the national archives store, buy reproductions and microfilm, facebook, twitter, instagram, tumblr, youtube, blogs, flickr]