[canada, english, canada, french, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , deutschland, , united kingdom, , nederland, , suomi, , españa, , polska, , advertiser disclosure, our priority is to provide reliable and valuable information to help readers make the right choice in the world of online casinos. casinonow canada is a free casino portal for our visitors, but we do make some money by dealing with casino partners for our maintenance. nevertheless, this doesn’t effect the results of our tests and reviews in any way., our experts always carry out unbiased assessments of the various online casino topics. we provide you with rankings of the best online casinos according to the selection criteria. our main goal is to provide reliable guidance to our loyal readers so that they can have the best gaming experience., may 19, 2021, 36 min read, our priority in casinonow canada is to guarantee locals an excellent experience playing online casinos. our tests & reviews are always unbiased. sometimes an online casino is 100% convincing and we decide to partner with it. however, this does not affect the objectivity of our assessment., casino bonus offers are very diverse, because they are a casino’s main attraction for new players who want to join online casinos. among the casino bonuses, you’re sure to pick up a few great offers, especially at newer casinos. the trick is to find the right ones that suit you, and use them in the right way where you can get the full benefit. this is why we have prepared a complete list of online casino bonuses for all users of casinonow canada. here, you’ll be able to select from some of our top-rated online casinos in canada, finding the right one giving you the bonuses that you want., ca, 5.0/5, c$1500 + 150 fs, payout rate, 97%, payout time, 2-3 days, min/max deposit, €20 – €10000, payment methods(15), ca, 4.9/5, $200 + 220 fs, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €1000, payment methods(8), ca, 4.8/5, 300 cad + 200 fs, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €10000, payment methods(12), ca, 4.7/5, c$1000 + 200 fs, payout rate, 97%, payout time, 2-3 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €5000, payment methods(8), ca, 4.6/5, c$1000, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1-3 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €5000, payment methods(13), in the following sections, we will tell you how to choose the offer that suits your needs best, how to get a bonus and explain various types of existing offers. if you are ready to use any of these casinonow promotions, just click on the link to get your free bonus now. if you just want to find out about the latest casino offers, take a look at our handy guide below., best bonus, no deposit, free spins, bonus code, a casino bonus is something that an online casino will offer to new or existing players, that will give them an added benefit when playing at their casino. these can range from free spins, matching deposit bonuses, friend referrals, free cash offers, and much, much more., online casinos in canada are always vying with each other because the online casino industry is just so fierce. this is why you’ll likely get a variety of different kinds of bonuses, whether you’re a new player or a seasoned veteran. sometimes it pays to start playing at an online casino that is brand new to the scene, as these offers can sometimes eclipse the existing casinos., the difference between land-based casinos and online casinos is that with online sites, they don’t need to pay for things like rent, staff and upkeep. all of this money that’s usually spent on those things at land-based casinos, can come straight back to the players in the form of bonuses and promotions. it matters because you’ll be able to do things like double your deposit, get added cash to your account, and have a chance to experience brand new games., many online casinos will offer similar bonuses, but this casino bonus guide will tell you how to tilt the games in your favour, giving you extra money to spend or free spins to use, but also has every other reliable aspects of an online casino that you’ll want and need., if you have found a casino that you like the look of, be it one from our recommended list at casinonow, or an operator that you found by own research. just follow these simple steps:, please note: casinos often give out bonuses automatically, although any decent operator will ask if you want to take a bonus. before you jump straight in, thinking you’re getting free money, you should always pay attention to the information offered on the bonus. the trick is that there are many nuances that need to be considered and we’ve tackled some of them below., please note: when you make your first deposit using a matched deposit bonus, you’ll have two bank accounts at the casino site. one will be for real money and the other will be for bonus money, or credits. together, these two wallets or bank accounts will form your bankroll. you’ll only be able to withdraw funds from your real money account at the start, and the bonus funds will become released after you’ve fulfilled the set of wagering requirements stipulated by the online casino. each casino and each offer will differ with their terms which is why it’s so important to read the conditions carefully., just because an online casino is offering you a bonus doesn’t always mean that you should claim it. some online casino bonuses are so shrouded in terms and conditions and different kinds of wagering requirements, that it just may not be worth it to claim it., it’s important to understand that bonuses are a pretty uncertain thing, although initially it seems that everything is so enjoyable and mostly, profitable. it may well happen that instead of the expected benefits, you can sometimes be held back by a bonus too. at most sites, the first deposit bonus offer is giving you a percentage increase up to a certain amount., here’s an example: let’s have a look at the jackpotcity casino offer of “100% on your first deposit up to $400”. here you will get a 100% bonus on your 1st deposit, but no more than $400., this is why we go through a lot of the conditions whenever we scope out and list the best online casinos to ensure that whenever you do play and want to claim an online casino bonus, you’ll be given the best ammunition to tackle the bonus and make out with the money at the end of it., please note: casinos often give out bonuses automatically, although any decent operator will ask if you want to take a bonus. before you jump straight in, thinking you’re getting free money, you should always pay attention to the information offered on the bonus. the trick is that there are many nuances that need to be considered and we’ve tackled some of them below., all you need to do to qualify for a bonus is to sign up at the online casino, provided you haven’t done so before. most online casino bonuses are given to you when you make your first initial deposit, but some can also be given without you actually making a deposit., in any casino from the casinonow top comparison table, the best offers for players in canada in 2020 are displayed. you’ll see them listed with the terms and conditions too. we have already collected, analyzed and aggregated a big amount of the data, you just have to choose an operator and familiarize yourself with the conditions for bonuses at this particular casino in detail., almost all online casino bonuses operate with a bonus percentage for your first deposit. this means that you’ll be given a certain amount on top of the first deposit bonus that you’ve committed to the casino. for example, the bonus percentage for canadian players ranges from 25% to 100%., traditionally, you’ll play through the bonus amount first and once that has been depleted, you’ll start spending real money. here, you’ll have to pay attention to the wagering requirements to see if you’re able to draw money off your bonus amount., please note: these bonuses will usually be applied automatically to your account, but some online casinos will require you to put in a bonus code or speak to the cashier once you’ve made a deposit. free spins and no deposit bonuses are given to you as soon as you’ve registered, and you’ll get to play those almost immediately without having to deposit any money into your account first., after you read detailed instructions on how to get your bonuses, you can calculate the size of the bonus on the deposit. at casinonow, we have created a special deposit bonus calculator for you so that you can choose which one suits you best. we have already included all of the conditions for bonuses too, so you won’t have any nasty surprises. you need to indicate the deposit amount in canadian dollars below., after you know the amount of your first welcome bonus, you can familiarize yourself with other types of bonuses in more detail, as well as with those “magic requirements” that we take into account in our bonus calculator., many players in canada and indeed around the world, will look for an online casino bonus whenever they decide to play at a site. whether the site is new or old, whether you’re a new member or an existing one, bonuses at an online casino are subjects that are constantly under scrutiny and people will always be on the lookout for the best ones., this is where you need to decide what’s right for you. have you had any experience playing at a casino with bonuses? are you familiar with basic requirements? what types of bonuses have you dealt with? how many casinos have you registered at already? too many questions…, but you always should be able to see exactly how much you’re getting out of each bonus, what type of bonus it is, whether you’ll have to deposit money and finally, if are you able to make withdrawals from the bonuses that you apply. next, we try to collect all types of bonuses that you may encounter while playing in an online casino., the variety of casino bonuses is amazing, as online casinos compete for new players, coming up with new bonus offers and promotions. it can be difficult for a new player to deal with all the unique bonus offers available. we are presenting the types and examples of bonus offers in simple form. so, you have a list of bonuses to look at and scrutinize so that you can make the right decision for you., casino registration bonuses are awarded to new players when they sign up for an account. these bonuses are generally granted as soon as a player’s account is confirmed. in most cases, all players have to do is click on a casino link. they have then completed their registration sufficiently to receive their bonus., most online casinos offer a welcome package. this generally comes in the form of bonuses for the first two, three, or more deposits. typically, the first deposit bonus will be a 100% match from the casino. the second deposit may be less than 100%, typically between 50% and 75%. the third, fourth and fifth deposits are sometimes only rewarded with free spins. these bonuses vary from one online casino to the next. standard welcome bonuses are known for offering not only free money, but free spins as well. casinos may offer sign up bonuses if they are new, in an attempt to quickly attract players., when it comes to online casino bonuses, they are usually given in terms of percentages. this means a casino will match a certain percentage of a player’s deposit. in most cases, casinos start by offering a 100% bonus. however, some will lure players in with a bonus of as much as 200%. these are generally considered by the casinos to be low percentage deposit bonuses. high percentage deposit bonuses are usually 400% or even 500%., multiple deposit bonuses are used to attract new players and keep them coming back for more. they are awarded over a period of time and players generally have to use their bonus before the casino will give them the next one. a typical casino bonus package includes at least two to five bonuses. this is something that is commonly offered by larger online casinos., exclusive casino bonuses are, by definition, one that no other casino could offer. they often focus on one new slot machine or table game that was created for that specific online casino. this is a marketing tool that online casinos use to show how much better they are then their competitors. it paints them as a casino that offers players something extra., anytime a new online casino launches, it will offer players bonuses in celebration. these new casino bonuses are heavily advertised and handed out freely. new casinos know they need to do something to hook players, so they promise them free money and/or spins. this convinces players to give one new casino a chance when they otherwise might not be willing to., high roller bonuses are extended to online casino players that are accustomed to this type of treatment at land-based casinos. in many cases, a player that has vip/high roller status with one or more online casinos can use that to register for a new one and automatically become a vip. all they have to do is prove that they hold that status somewhere else., bonus codes and campaign codes are often used by online casinos as a way of promoting themselves. players must enter the bonus or campaign code on a casino’s cashier page when claiming the bonus, it signifies. these codes are also used by mobile casino players. you’ll then need to use that code in the appropriate box at an online casino that asks for a promo code, or you’ll just need to give the code over to the cashier when you first sign up at the online casino. one bonus code is assigned to each player promotion an online casino runs., most online casinos accept a variety of payment methods. some of those methods offer players an extra bonus. the casino may choose to run a promotion encouraging players to use the one payment method they prefer. since different payment methods are available in different countries, not every player can take advantage of ever payment method bonus. players usually get an extra percentage added to their bonus for using the specified payment method., free roll is a type of bonus that originated in land based casinos. at check-in they would give players one roll of coins to encourage them to use slot machines. all these years later, the term has made its way over to online casinos as well. in this case, it means that players can enter a gaming tournament for free but any money they win in the tournament they are free to cash out., free-play is a bonus that online casinos offer to tempt hesitant players. it lets players try slot machine games without having to use real money for them. though players can’t usually claim their winnings, free-play allows them to determine whether or not they enjoy one particular game. they use fake casino credits to enable the free-play and can choose to deposit real money at any time., many online casinos offer no deposit bonuses, especially if they are struggling to attract players. a no deposit bonus is one in which players are automatically given money from the casino. this bonus is mostly offered to new players who have recently registered with one online casino in particular. the bonus money is placed in their casino account and they can spend it on games., a free spins bonus is one that casinos offer to new players as well as loyal players. it can be accompanied by a cash bonus, or stand on its own. players’ deposits will often get them free spins. the casino chooses whether players can use those free spins on any game or a specific game. sometimes casinos will even give players a few games to choose from. extra spin bonuses are often rewarded when players are winning a particular game., no deposit free spins are used to welcome new players to an online casino. many of them won’t offer players free money without a deposit, but they will offer them free spins for registering with the site. these free spins are meant to encourage players to eventually deposit their own money into their casino account. players who use their free spins and don’t deposit money may be limited in the games they can access., wager-free spins are those that don’t have any requirements applied to them. this means an online casino will not restrict how a player has to use those spins. spins that aren’t wager free have to be played a certain amount of time before any winnings can be withdrawn. yet wager free spins give players the flexibility to engage in one slot machine game for as long as they want., loyalty bonuses are used by online casinos to keep regular players interested. vip level casino members receive loyalty bonuses according to the casino’s regulations. most casinos have at least three different levels of loyalty bonuses. they generally include silver, gold, and platinum, though many casinos offer other levels as well. for example, players may start at the bronze level and get a few perks. when they reach silver level the value (and sometimes frequency) of the perks increase. gold gets them even better perks and platinum is generally the highest level loyal players can reach., players that keep returning to a particular online casino can earn loyalty points. they earn points differently depending on which games they play. in general, players can earn points faster on table games than they can on slot machine games. when they have accumulated a certain number of loyalty points, players can cash them in. some casinos allow players to receive bonus money for their points, while others offer one or more prizes., cashback bonuses are offered to players to partially compensate them for monetary losses at an online casino. while not all online casinos offer this bonus, some include it for new players. in some cases, a cashback bonus is limited to those who play table games or use an online casino’s sportsbook. however, some casinos offer it to vips as well., some online casinos, but mostly online sports betting sites, offer daily casino cashback bonuses. by giving players one cashback bonus every day, they help to build up loyalty among the most devoted. players are more likely to bet with their own money when they know they are getting somewhat of a bonus. this is the reason why some online casinos will offer this., vip bonuses are given to an online casino’s most valuable players. there is more than one type of vip bonuses that casinos offer. some divide their vips into standard, elite, and diamond. standard vip bonuses include cashback offers, free spins, and rewards on a player’s birthday or the anniversary of their joining the casino. elite and diamond level vips often receive bonuses such as gift cards, electronics, and even vacations., a reload bonus is often given to players who continue to deposit money into their casino account. reload bonuses are usually a percentage of the amount of the deposit. casinos offer this bonus as part of ongoing promotions and many will offer even better reload bonuses to vips. reload bonuses can be limited to one per day, week, or even month., casinos will offer refer a friend bonuses in order to increase the number of active players they have. any player that is registered and active with a particular online casino can benefit from urging others to register for it too. the registered player recommends a casino to someone. as long as that person registers for an account with the casino, deposits money into their account and uses it, the player that referred them gets a bonus from the casino. generally, this is a cash bonus., it is not unusual for online casinos to run both table game and slot machine tournaments. players that enter these tournaments can often win bonuses. in many cases, those bonuses allow them to enter one more of a casino’s tournaments without having to pay to do so. however, casinos may instead choose to offer cash bonuses for their tournaments., slot bonuses are offered by online casinos as an incentive for players to try those games. they are often included in new player bonuses, especially for casinos that focus heavily on slots. when players get a slot bonus, they can spin the reels for free. the casino determines whether or not players can keep the money that they win from these free spin bonuses., roulette bonuses are helpful in improving the gaming experience for table players. online casinos offer them to players who are interested in table games. since casinos make more money on these games, they use roulette bonuses to increase the number pf people playing. these bonuses are offered on automated and live dealer games., online blackjack has become one of the most popular casino games. as a result, it is common for players to be offered a bonus. some casinos will offer a free chip to new players, to use on one game of blackjack. these are usually bonuses made to reward a player for his or her deposit. sometimes high rollers and vips get this type of bonus., baccarat players are sometimes given a bonus by certain online casinos. while bonuses are more common on slots and other table games, baccarat bonuses are not unheard of. in most cases, they are offered for automated versions of the game. some online casinos may choose to offer a bonus for live dealer games of baccarat as well., craps bonus is offered by online casinos in one of two ways. players may get a cashable bonus, which is money that goes to them as soon as they have met the casino’s wagering requirements. instead, they may get a sticky/non-cashable bonus. this is bonus money that players can use to bet on craps. they cannot claim the money they win from using a bonus of this type., bingo bonuses can vary from one online casino to the next. some will offer new bingo players free cards they can play the game with. others will extend a bingo bonus to new players without the need for them to even make a deposit. many online casinos have an exclusive bingo lobby where the bonuses can be applied., sic bo is an ancient table game that has found a home in land-based and online casinos. like any other game, online casinos offer bonuses to sic bo players. each casino handles their sic bo bonus differently. for example, one casino may offer a 10% cashback on sic bo and another offers a 300% deposit bonus to play sic bo instead., keno is a classic lottery game that many online casinos now offer. some of them offer bonuses to get their players interested in the game. for example, a player may have a cash bonus of $1,000 to spend on keno. these are the kinds of bonuses other casinos offer as well. cash bonuses give players the confidence to try their luck on someone else’s dime., certain online casino game companies build bonuses into their titles. casinos love this because it gets players excited about these games. for example, netent, one of the largest software companies in the industry, offers specific bonuses on slot machine games. it offers other bonuses designed for roulette and blackjack games as well. live casino game bonuses are also offered by certain software companies., live casino bonuses are offered almost exclusively as new player and high roller bonuses. for new players, the live casino bonuses give them free chips to spend on the table games. high roller bonuses are usually focused on live casino games because these players aren’t as likely to engage in slot machines. since table games make more money than slots, these bonuses are becoming increasingly popular at online casinos., mobile casinos will often offer players exclusive bonuses they can’t get at online casinos. while some online casinos have a mobile counterpart, some casinos are only available on mobile devices. online casinos that also have a mobile site may offer completely different bonuses to players, depending on how they access the casino. bonuses offered to mobile players are more often focused on slots than table games., many online casinos offer a cash bonus in which a certain percentage of it has to be wagered before players can claim any winnings. casinos do this so that they can offer players something enticing without losing too much money. these bonuses carry with them different wager percentages., for example, a no wagering bonus is one where players don’t have to spend their own money to win any. this is not a commonly offered bonus, but some new online casinos may use it to entice players. a low wagering bonus typically requires players to take the deposit they have made and place bets with it at least 15 times. after they have made those 15 bets they can claim any winnings they accumulate afterwards. a high wagering bonus means players may be expected to bet their money a minimum of 50 times before being able to cash out winnings. as a result, higher wagering bonuses are often only applied to high rollers and those with vip status., sticky and non-sticky are bonus types that casinos build into their promotions, often for new players. a sticky bonus is one that players cannot cancel. once they receive the bonus they must use it as the casino intended for them to. this generally means that they can’t withdraw that bonus money; the only way they can use it is on a casino’s game. a non-sticky bonus can be cancelled by players if they decide they don’t want it. this means that if they only spend their own money, as opposed to the casino’s money, they can withdraw any winnings they have accumulated. in general, non-sticky bonuses match either half of a player’s deposit or the entire amount., virtually every online casino offers players a bonus on their birthday. when players are submitting their information to register with a particular casino, their birth date is one piece of information they must enter. as long as players remain active, they will get a cash bonus and/or free games to celebrate. this bonus is offered for everyone from new players up to vip level., a growing number of new and existing online casinos are now accepting bitcoin payments. there are even online casinos that take no other type of payment other than bitcoins. these casinos reward players for using this digital currency. in some cases, players will receive a higher bonus for their bitcoin deposits. many online casinos issue bonus codes that can be used to take advantage of this type of bonus., most casinos offer bonuses on a weekly and monthly basis. regular players at almost any online casino can take advantage of these bonuses. they can be given in the form of free spins and/or bonus money. sometimes weekly and monthly bonuses get players a certain percentage of their losses back., usually this type of bonuses raises a lot of questions. therefore, here is a short and simple explanation: deposit match bonuses are equal to the money amount that you place. this type of bonuses is quite common. first, a casino site decides on the required deposit amount, and then gives the player a cash up to a certain bonus percentage., christmas, easter, new year, summer vacations and many other holidays are celebrated by canadians every year. casino operators are trying to give bonus gifts for each holiday or seasonal event. these bonuses can appear in various forms – they are as diverse as many wonderful holidays are., as you know, this is a special type of bonus, which may include all the varieties described. it is important to understand what you need right now, choose it and enjoy playing casino games. with this ultimate guide, everything is in your hands. always choose the best!, after reviewing the large list of casino bonuses at casinonow, you can understand and figure out whether you should take one of them and whether or not it’ll work for your specific circumstances. always check the information with the casino support and read the conditions carefully. despite the great variety, in general, bonus offerings have common disadvantages and advantages. let’s meet them!, pros of casino bonus, cons of casino bonus, now let’s learn more about casino terms and conditions applying to bonus offers., as we’ve already mentioned, it’s really important that you read the terms of use for every bonus you plan to claim. you will find all of the rules and regulations that you need to follow in order to get your bonus, as well as claim any winnings that you might be entitled to., below, you’ll find a glossary of terms that you may come across, and we’ll do our best to help you to understand them:, some of the bonuses will only be able to be used on specific games, while others may only give you a certain percentage of the bonus until you’ve played for a period of time. you won’t be able to claim two bonuses at any one time with the same deposit amount. you also won’t be able to withdraw over a certain amount when winning real money off a no deposit bonus code. there are many different terms and conditions you’ll need to abide by when first signing up for the bonuses., whatever bonus you decide to take, the main conditions for the bonus are important. take a look at the major conditions that you might find attached to bonuses below:, to better understand the bonus offers, we want to explain you some more terms:, dealing with wagering you’ll find that certain games will count more for the wagering requirements than others will too. usually, slots will count towards wagering requirements quite fairly, but certain table games will only count a fraction of the wagering requirements, or something not even be eligible to contribute towards it., note that live casino games are not usually wagered in the same way, or at all, when using bonus casino money. you may find that you’ll get a unique bonus specifically for live dealer casino games, and in that case, the bonus won’t work for other types of casino games either. they cannot be mixed and matched., we conducted a study on the slots where wagering is not possible. take a look at our unique data recorded in the table below:, blood suckers, blood suckers 2, bonanza, cosmic fortune, creature from the black lagoon, dead or alive, eggomatic, fruit shop, guns n’ roses video slots, high society, hotline, immortal romance, jackpot6000, jimi hendrix online slot tm, joker gems, jokerizer, mythic maiden, piggy riches, robin hood: shifting riches, secret of the stones, secrets of atlantis, secrets of christmas, starmania, steam tower, supernova, the invisible man, the wish master, twin spin, victorious, wild heist at peacock manor, wild rockets, wild turkey and progressive jackpots., all jackpot games, live games and video poker games., slots: beautiful bones, castle builder, castle builder ii, cool buck, dragons myth, forsaken kingdom, peek-a-boo, scrooge, stardust, untamed bengal tiger, untamed crowned eagle, untamed giant panda, untamed wolf pack, blood suckers, dead or alive, devil’s delight™, eggomatic, jack hammer 2, kings of chicago, mega joker, robin hood, the wish master, tomb raider, zombies, eye of the kraken, tower quest, pearls of india, tomb raider 2, big bang, jackpot 6000, super nudge 6000, vampire: the masquerade – las vegas, gem rocks, dead or alive 2™, zombie hoard, abracadabra, mega moolah, arabian nights, midas gold, avalon mirror, magic aztec, idols monster, wins,big spinner, multifruit 81, bork the berzerker, hack n slash, mystery joker 6000 cash splash, mystery reels, casino win, spin osiris, castle builder, ozwin’s jackpots, cosmic fortune, persian fortune, count duckula, pots o’luck, dead or alive, power force heroes, deck the halls, power force villains, devil’s delight, queen of riches, diamond gamevy, railroad, divine fortune, rainbow jackpots, dragon sisters, red hot wild, football champions, cup reels of wealth, fortune gamevy, robin hood, fortunes of ra, santas wild ride, fortunes of sparta, secrets of christmas, fruit warp, sinbad’s golden voyage, golden sky, lounge, golden mane, soldier of rome, gong xi fa cai, spina colada, good girl, bad girl, star quest, hall of gods, super lucky frog, hellboy, super nudge 6000, holmes and the stolen stones, superman last son of krypton, immortal romance, tetris, jackpot 6000, the tipsy tourist, joker 8000, treasure nile, joker pro triple, red hot 7s free games, jokerizer, tuts twister, keno, vampires, kings of chicago, vikings of fortune, laser fruit, wild circus, leprechaun, goes to hell wild spartans, lucky little, devil wild swarm, lucky little, gods wild west, medusa ii, jackpots wild wheel, medusa 2 h5 hq, winstar, mega fortune, worms reloaded, mega fortune mobile, mega joker., at casinonow, we only list good casinos and usually, the information on how much is left to wager can be found in the “bonuses” section. if there is no additional information there, then you can find out from the live chat support. people playing in the best casinos have been convinced more than once that there are no problems with bonuses and its wagering., if you’ve somehow come across a blacklisted casino, then do not be surprised when you get given a bonus without even asking for one. it turns out that very stringent conditions were brought in for wagering, so it’s easier for the player to break them. whenever this happens, the player loses their win, and sometimes their bonus too. if you want to try and avoid these situations, then make sure you play on sites with good reputations. read more about bonus security in the section below., many people think like: “these are just bonuses, not my credit card details.” what security should i think of? when signing up at a casino, putting in your personal details and payment information, none of that is filtered through the actual bonus claiming process. ensure that you understand the following:, online casinos from our list are completely safe, so it makes little sense as to why online casino bonuses would not be safe. as long as you are getting your bonus codes and offers through legitimate sites such as this one, or straight from the online casino, you’ll be safe and sound when playing online. by the way, in the best online casinos the special rules are mainly created in order to protect from bonus hunters., a bonus hunter is exactly what it says on the tin. someone who hunts for bonuses. you see, all bonuses out there are of particular interest for these types of people, and these bonus hunters will use mathematical algorithms to determine which bonuses are best and which ones they can exploit. you might not only find bonus hunters at casinos though, because there are many different types of bonus hunters around., these people can be divided into two groups – the newbies and the professionals. the newbies, or amateurs, will receive all the possible bonuses on offer, usually the best ones, without breaking or violating any rules. the professionals will try to claim bonuses with multiple accounts to profit from a casino., bonus hunters – newbies & amateurs, it’s perfectly legal to be a bonus hunter while staying within the confines of the casino rules. you can move around from site to site and pick up your favourite bonuses. the casinos that don’t offer you great bonuses, even after you’ve signed up, you need not play there anymore., bonus hunters – professionals, the professionals are the ones that claim bonuses at every new casino out there, whether it’s a no deposit bonus, free spins or a particularly juicy welcome bonus. there are plenty of various ways that they do these things, whether it’s creating new accounts, running vpns or even running virtual machines., vpn, a vpn is a virtual private network. it’s a connection method used to reroute your traffic through another network, to make the other network think you’re connecting from somewhere where you are not., virtual machine, a virtual machine is a computer system emulator. it provides the functionality of a physical computer while being part of the same computer still. you can execute computer programs in an isolated environment, meaning you could run two accounts at once., professional bonus hunters create a lot of accounts, and their task is to win back bonuses and safely withdraw money., in general, the pro will try to squeeze the maximum out of the casino until they are caught, or the casino stops giving bonuses. of course, catching a professional is not an easy task, besides, these professional bonus hunters will have all the required documents. that is why casinos often require players to provide a photo with an id in a hand, or come up with other verification options. bonus hunters are a phenomenon from the world of online casinos. in a traditional casino such behavior is basically impossible. about the differences between bonuses in online and offline casinos please read below., online casino bonuses are far more lucrative because you’ll be able to get anywhere between 100% and 300% of your initial deposit in actual credit that you can use at the online casino site. some bonuses will also offer you free spins, no deposit bonuses, referral bonuses for friends and family, and much more. certain sites can give you double your deposit on monday, or sometimes an online casino will be promoting a brand new slot and give you 50 free spins when you deposit funds on a random tuesday. there are many bonuses that online casinos will offer, even for different public holidays. when halloween pops up, or perhaps something like valentine’s day, you’ll be able to claim holiday specific bonuses that can increase your funds, your spins and as a result, your overall enjoyment., traditional casinos don’t often offer bonuses, but those that do, don’t normally offer ones that can affect your bottom line when playing. if you’ve played a big land-based casino anywhere in canada, you may be well familiar with the free drinks and food on offer. the fact of the matter is, anything that a land-based casino can offer to you, will never be in the form of a fund increase or the ability to win money on real money games for free., most online casino bonuses are a fantastic idea. if you read what is on offer and are able to abide by the rules and regulations, then there’s nothing to stop you having a good time when using a casino bonus. we’ll always recommend to our users that if something doesn’t feel right, then find another site. however, you can rest assured that all of our top-rated online casinos in canada will offer you a sound playing environment, ensuring your safety and security., we will never recommend an online casino purely for the bonus because it’s not supposed to be the only thing that you decide upon. it should be thought of as a way to increase your bankroll and get you playing new and exciting games, without spending too much of your own real money., finding new online casino bonuses for canadian players is quite easy if you know where to look. that’s why our expert team of independent reviewers at casinonow have made it possible for you to find the best sites that offer new bonuses. we have a list of the top rated canadian casinos that offer new bonuses and you’ll be able to sift through the best sites we’ve found and pick one that suits you best. if you’re looking for a huge bonus then you can easily find one, if you’re not too concerned in finding a huge bonus, then you can find smaller, incremental ones too. anything that you’d need that’s anywhere remotely related to canadian online casino games and bonuses can be found right here., if you find yourself trying to get the best online casino bonus in canada, then you’ve come to the right place. it can always be a tough task to find the best online casino sites around that offer lucrative bonuses, a great variety of games and safe and secure ways to make and receive payments., our team of experts at casinonow will sign up at the top-rated online casinos and work towards claiming each and every bonus so that we can see for ourselves that they offer a positive experience for each player that visits our site., our bonus team will often select new and exciting bonuses by country, based on the experiences of our team using these casino promotions. whenever we decide which online casino bonuses to go for and which casinos to play at, we always assess them fairly in the following ways:, with casinonow, you’ll be treated to a real vip experience because we have a team of experts that plays online casino games with their own money, gambling at as many places as possible. they’ll claim bonuses, deposit and withdraw money, try games on different devices and so much more in order to get the best online casino outcome they possibly can., it’s always worth taking a look at online casino bonuses no matter what kind of bonus it is. some of them will add a lot of value to your bottom line and others, while small, may give you a real taste of what it’s like to play at an online casino in the real money section. thankfully, our team of experts has put together a list of the best online casino bonus sites canada has to offer, so you’ll find that you never get mistreated or find there are some strange terms and conditions to overcome., online casino bonuses work by adding free spins or free credits to your online casino account. without costing you any money! casinos are usually able to give these away in lieu of a marketing budget, so that they can still gain popularity, but instead, give money back to the people who sign up., bonuses are a way of online casinos getting people to play at their sites. online casinos don’t have the same overheads that land-based casinos have, so the money that they would usually spend on other things, can be given to the players to get more and more people to sign up at the casino., follow all the bonus terms and conditions. in order to activate an online bonus, you’ll either need to fulfil the requirements set out by the bonus, put the code you’re given over email or from another site into the promo slot, or just speak to the cashier after you’ve fulfilled the requirements., extra money to play with! usually a welcome bonus is something that adds a lot of value to your initial deposit, especially if you’ve set aside a good amount to play with. you can often just double your deposit with bonuses in free credit meaning that you’ll be able to play for twice as long., a bonus code is a 10-16 digit number. it’s given to a player that they can claim at a particular casino. usually, you’ll get a no deposit bonus code or a welcome bonus code which you can then use to increase your bottom line, which will let you play for a lot longer., most online casino bonuses, apart from free spins, can be used on any casino game. each game, whether you’re playing slots or table games like blackjack and roulette, will count the wagering amount differently. this means that you’ll reach your playthrough requirement at different speeds depending on the types of games you play., you can! most online casino will offer bonuses regardless of what platform you play on. there are a few online casinos that will offer exclusive bonuses to players on mobile and perhaps some that even use different kinds of deposit methods., no, that’s the beauty of it. new players will likely be able to claim the most lucrative welcome bonuses and the no deposit bonus codes that offer free credits or free spins. players who have been part of an online casino for a while will sometimes be offered reload bonuses where they can claim different perks on different days of the week. you can also get referral codes to refer friends and family or even some cash back schemes, where the casino will pay you a percentage of wagers lost., look for a no deposit bonus! we will always recommend starting off with a no deposit bonus code in order for you to play for real money or for free spins at the beginning, to get a feel for the online casino you’ve chosen. from there, start to look at the first deposit bonus and then start playing your favourite games., chief editor, james taylor is the chief editor of casinonow canada portal. this is the professional name of our bilingual go-to guy who adds value to all our work. he has been working as editor-in-chief at casionnow canada since 2018. previously, he studied at the university of quebec in montreal and worked in market research companies., , canada, english, canada, french, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , deutschland, , united kingdom, , nederland, , suomi, , españa, , polska, , you are in safe hands, our recommended casinos have been certified by, sign up for +350 free spins!, by entering your e-mail here, you confirm your subscription to our newsletter. please be aware that all online players must be of legal age (18+). please confirm that you have read the t&cs and cookies policies, and that you accept the privacy terms., casino-now-canada.com website is certified by, casinonow’s mission is to provide content that aims to help all online casino players in canada. we provide reviews and comparisons between different online casinos according to unique rating criteria. as a result our team deal with different themes such as casino bonuses, payment methods, casino games, software companies and much more. we are independent experts who make useful and up-to-date guides for online players from canada., address 439 university avenue, toronto, ontario, m5g 1y8, phone no. +1 (877) 705-0707, copyright © 2017-2020 casino-now-canada.com all rights reserved][best online casino bonus offers in 2021, top 5 recommended casino bonuses in trusted casinos, what is casino bonus?, why does it matter?, how do i get my best casino bonus?, to take or not to take?, understanding the basics of casino bonuses, how do casino bonuses work?, casino deposit bonus calculator, how to choose the best casino bonus for you?, 42 types of casino bonuses you need to know, registration bonuses, welcome package / welcome bonuses / sign up bonuses, bonuses by percentage, multiple deposit bonuses / casino bonus package, exclusive casino bonuses, new casino bonuses, high roller bonuses, bonus codes & campaign codes, payments method bonuses, free roll, free-play, no deposit bonuses, free spins & extra spins bonuses, no deposit free spin, wager-free spins, loyalty bonuses, loyalty points, cashback bonuses, daily casino cashback bonuses, vip bonuses, reload bonuses, refer a friend bonuses, tournament bonuses, slot bonuses, roulette bonuses, online blackjack bonus, baccarat bonus, craps bonus, bingo bonus, sic bo bonus, keno bonus, software specific bonuses, live bonuses, mobile bonuses, bonuses by wager percentage, sticky/non-sticky bonus, casino birthday bonus, bitcoin casino bonuses / btc casino bonus codes, monthly & weekly casino bonuses, deposit match bonus, seasonal events or holidays bonuses, best casino bonus for you, is a casino bonus for me?, 7 casino bonus tips, casino bonus terms & conditions, compare bonus offer conditions, compare wagering requirements, list of online slots with 0% bonus wagering, check the status of bonus wagering, what about security?, a bonus hunter – who is it?, online casino bonuses vs. traditional casino bonuses, 7 popular casino bonus mistakes, is casino bonus a good idea?, finding new casino bonuses for canadians, our methodology, conclusions, frequently asked questions, how do casino bonuses work?, why do casinos give away bonuses?, how to activate a casino bonus?, what is a welcome bonus in simple words?, what is a bonus code?, what casino games can i play with a bonus?, can i get a mobile bonus?, are casino bonuses only available for new players?, what bonus should i try first?, about the author]top online casino bonus [best bonus offers 2021 - canada][casino bonus, this is why we have prepared a complete list of online casino bonuses for all users of casinonow canada., an added benefit when playing at their casino, you how to tilt the games in your favour, just follow these simple steps:, a percentage increase up to a certain amount, you just have to choose an operator and familiarize yourself with the conditions for bonuses at this particular casino in detail, traditionally, you’ll play through the bonus amount first and once that has been depleted, you’ll start spending real money., to decide what’s right for you, types and examples of bonus offers in simple form, in most cases, all players have to do is click on a casino link, this generally comes in the form of bonuses for the first two, three, or more deposits, in most cases, casinos start by offering a 100% bonus, a typical casino bonus package includes at least two to five bonuses, they often focus on one new slot machine or table game that was created for that specific online casino, new casinos know they need to do something to hook players, so they promise them free money and/or spins, a player that has vip/high roller status with one or more online casinos can use that, players must enter the bonus or campaign code on a casino’s cashier page when claiming the bonus, it signifies, players usually get an extra percentage added to their bonus for using the specified payment method., it means that players can enter a gaming tournament for free but any money they win in the tournament they are free to cash out, it lets players try slot machine games without having to use real money for them, this bonus is mostly offered to new players who have recently registered with one online casino in particular, the casino chooses whether players can use those free spins on any game or a specific game, they will offer them free spins for registering with the site, an online casino will not restrict how a player has to use those spins, they generally include silver, gold, and platinum, though many casinos offer other levels as well, players can earn points faster on table games than they can on slot machine games, to partially compensate them for monetary losses at an online casino, by giving players one cashback bonus every day, they help to build up loyalty among the most devoted, some divide their vips into standard, elite, and diamond, reload bonuses are usually a percentage of the amount of the deposit, the player that referred them gets a bonus from the casino, those bonuses allow them to enter one more of a casino’s tournaments without having to pay to do so, when players get a slot bonus, they can spin the reels for free, roulette bonuses are helpful in improving the gaming experience for table players, these are usually bonuses made to reward a player for his or her deposit, baccarat bonuses are not unheard of, in one of two ways, many online casinos have an exclusive bingo lobby where the bonuses can be applied, each casino handles their sic bo bonus differently, these are the kinds of bonuses other casinos offer as well, netent, one of the largest software companies in the industry, are becoming increasingly popular at online casinos, depending on how they access the casino, a cash bonus in which a certain percentage of it has to be wagered, sticky and non-sticky are bonus types that casinos build into their promotions, often for new players, virtually every online casino offers players a bonus on their birthday, in some cases, players will receive a higher bonus for their bitcoin deposits, regular players at almost any online casino can take advantage of these bonuses, deposit match bonuses are equal to the money amount that you place, appear in various forms, what you need right now, always check the information with the casino support and read the conditions carefully, it will substantially increase the amount of time you can spend playing, a chance to play new and exciting games, it will substantially increase the amount of time you can spend playing, a chance to play new and exciting games, you will find all of the rules and regulations that you need to follow in order to get your bonus, minimum age to receive a bonus., restricted countries with a ban on receiving a bonus., payment methods to use., minimum deposit amount, maximum amount of bonus money., number of free spins available., free spin bet., winnings limit., bonus expiration date., betting requirements., main conditions for the bonus are important, maximum bonus amount., wagering requirements., bonus validity., game restrictions., betting limits., slots will count towards wagering requirements quite fairly, make sure you play on sites with good reputations, from our list are completely safe, bonus hunters will use mathematical algorithms to determine which bonuses are best, you can move around from site to site and pick up your favourite bonuses, fantastic idea, online casino bonuses work by adding free spins or free credits to your online casino account., bonuses are a way of online casinos getting people to play at their sites., follow all the bonus terms and conditions., extra money to play with!, a bonus code is a 10-16 digit number., most online casino bonuses, apart from free spins, can be used on any casino game., you can!, no, that’s the beauty of it., look for a no deposit bonus!, casino-now-canada.com , address, phone no., casino-now-canada.com][about us, canada english canada french schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich deutschland united kingdom nederland suomi españa polska, canada french, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, deutschland, united kingdom, nederland, suomi, españa, polska, casinos, bonuses, slots, games, deposits, software, casinonow, , casino bonus, payout rate 97%, payout time 2-3 days, min/max deposit €20 – €10000, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , a huge selection of games available made by top tier software providers, the customer support team is at its best, with live chat, email and phone support, playamo casino is a completely legitimate venture, fully licensed by the top igaming authorities., payout rate 98%, payout time 1 days, min/max deposit €10 – €1000, , , , , , , , , a solid selection of software providers, customer service is available to contact 24/7, live chat option is especially useful in this sense, payout rate 98%, payout time 1 days, min/max deposit €10 – €10000, , , , , , , , , , , , , woo casino features support for cryptocurrencies and bitcoin cash, alongside other payment methods, the owner of woo casino, direx n.v. is a legitimate, trusted operator of several top-tier online casinos, there is a nice bonus for the new players in the form of several hundred free spins for the slots, payout rate 97%, payout time 2-3 days, min/max deposit €10 – €5000, , , , , , , , , thousands of available games that the players can play – made by top tier developers, big welcome deposit bonus for new players in the form of free betting money, dozens of live games to enjoy in the live casino section, payout rate 98%, payout time 1-3 days, min/max deposit €10 – €5000, , , , , , , , , , , , , , fully licensed and legit online casino – owned by the palace group, some of the best games made by reputable developer microgaming, big casino bonuses especially for the new players, what is casino bonus?, why does it matter?, how do i get my best casino bonus?, to take or not to take?, how do casino bonuses work?, casino deposit bonus calculator, how to choose the best casino bonus for you?, 42 types of casino bonuses you need to know, is a casino bonus for me?, 7 casino bonus tips, casino bonus terms & conditions, compare bonus offer conditions, compare wagering requirements, list of online slots with 0% bonus wagering, check the status of bonus wagering, what about security?, a bonus hunter – who is it?, online casino bonuses vs. traditional casino bonuses, 7 popular casino bonus mistakes, is casino bonus a good idea?, finding new casino bonuses for canadians, our methodology, frequently asked questions, examine the t&cs of the bonus, create an account, claim bonus offer, ensure bonus has been deposited, enjoy!, your first step is always to read the terms and conditions of the bonus and ensure you understand them fully., if you are sure that you understand and are satisfied with the terms, you can register your account. registration is the only prerequisite for all types of bonuses., if you carefully read the terms and conditions, you’ll quickly learn how to initiate a specific offer. this usually includes confirmation of your registration via email or making your first deposit., claiming a new bonus at an online casino is easy. depending on the site, you’ll either need to visit the cashier and chat to them about the bonus you want to claim, or you’ll just have to hit the requirements to get the bonus added directly to your account., check if the bonus is available in your account., enjoy your game!, the pros of online casino bonuses can be quite clear. the first and most important positive point from getting a casino bonus is that it will substantially increase the amount of time you can spend playing., with first deposit bonuses, your money will be doubled, and whether you’re playing table games or slots, having twice as much time to play, is twice as much fun. it also means that you may not need to risk as much of your real money whenever you decide to start playing because you’ll get 100% of your first deposit back in casino credit., aside from that, you’ll also get a chance to play new and exciting games. sometimes online casinos can offer free spins to you for specific slot games and you can use these to understand and master specific slot games., the pros of online casino bonuses can be quite clear. the first and most important positive point from getting a casino bonus is that it will substantially increase the amount of time you can spend playing., with first deposit bonuses, your money will be doubled, and whether you’re playing table games or slots, having twice as much time to play, is twice as much fun. it also means that you may not need to risk as much of your real money whenever you decide to start playing because you’ll get 100% of your first deposit back in casino credit., aside from that, you’ll also get a chance to play new and exciting games. sometimes online casinos can offer free spins to you for specific slot games and you can use these to understand and master specific slot games., subscribe to multiple newsletters. having the latest news and bonus information can be a huge help if you’re looking to score big., ensure that you understand the casino’s specific bonus requirements. do you need a coupon code? do you claim it through the cashier?, don’t be fooled by the high match deposits. these usually come with high wagering requirements too., check that you can play from your country. some casinos will only accept players from specific countries., you may be limited to specific games. check the limitations of your bonus funds., you can’t use two bonuses at the same time, so don’t even try it!, use your head when playing. always think rationally. don’t play if you’ve had a bad day or are trying to chase losses., minimum age to receive a bonus. in most countries, you’ll need to be over 18 to start online gambling. it does differ from country to country, as well as territory to territory. without being the appropriate legal age, you won’t be able to claim your bonus or even gamble., restricted countries with a ban on receiving a bonus. certain countries won’t allow you to receive a bonus as per their online gambling rules. ensure that you have followed the letter of the law at all times., payment methods to use. some countries will have particular banking methods that you need to use, as they are trusted and reputable. you’ll need to deposit and/or withdraw your real money using one of these payment methods. thankfully, they are usually some of the most popular methods., minimum deposit amount. this is the minimum amount of money that you need to deposit at the casino in order to qualify for the bonus at hand., maximum amount of bonus money. some bonuses will only grant you extra credit if you abide by the rules, and certain bonuses will limit you to a maximum amount of bonus money that you can claim., number of free spins available. free spins are given to customers when they first sign up, claim a bonus or win them. these will be from a separate ‘pool’ of spins that you can use for online slots., free spin bet. a free spin bet is when you’re able to place a normal bet, just as you would with real money, for free. these can usually end up in you winning some kind of free spins round or mini-game., winnings limit. sometimes people are out to try and abuse the bonuses meant for everyone. that’s why you’ll find a limit on the amount of winnings you can claim with a bonus. these types of limits usually only apply to no deposit bonuses., bonus expiration date. each bonus will only last for a certain amount of time. ensure that you’ve claimed and used your bonus before the expiration date, otherwise you may be out of luck!, betting requirements. bonuses will often require players to play on specific table games or slots, or perhaps playthrough the amount of bonus money you’ve earned a number of times before you’re able to withdraw real money. these betting requirements ensure that players can still have a good time, while the casino keeps itself protected too., maximum bonus amount. a maximum bonus amount is the total amount that a promotion will pay up to. you might see a 200% matched deposit bonus up to $1,000, meaning that you’ll only get the matched deposit up to that particular amount., wagering requirements. this is an amount that you’ll need to play or spend in order to free the money up so that you can withdraw profits. you’ll usually see a number followed by an “x”, so something along the lines of 20x playthrough requirement. this means, that if you get a $10 bonus, you’ll need to play through $10 twenty times before you’re able to withdraw any winnings you’ve made off that particular bonus., bonus validity. when you get a great bonus from a casino and decide to start playing, be sure to check the validity. some bonuses will only be valid for a few days before they expire., game restrictions. the game restrictions will usually be stated on the bonus. for example, if you were to get 50 free spins with your first deposit, you’d usually need to spend all of those spins on one particular slot. the same is true for playthrough requirements where certain table games wouldn’t count towards the wagering requirements., betting limits. betting limits are the maximum amount of bets that can be placed using the deposit bonus. you may not be allowed to bet a maximum amount at a table when using casino credits., will this deposit be wasted and will i be able to wager the bonus?, which organization will protect me if i have fulfilled all the conditions, but the bonus was not withdrawn?, is the bonus size just a way to bait me in?, is this casino from a blacklist?, failing to read the terms and conditions of a particular bonus., not understanding the simple wagering requirements., playing games that don’t qualify for the bonus requirements., failing to understand the game that you are playing with your bonus money., having the belief that you can cash out no deposit bonuses immediately., not realizing that there is both a minimum and a maximum withdrawal for bonuses., not doing your research on the casino’s reputation when being offered the bonus., time to receive the bonus, bonus expiration time, which countries the bonus applies to, a list of safe and secure payment options, the minimum deposit needed to receive a bonus, the maximum allowable bet when wagering with the bonus, the maximum withdrawal amount of the no deposit bonus, and many more, find your best boku microgaming payforit paysafecard visa real money casinos, boku, microgaming, payforit, paysafecard, visa, real money casinos, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, casino games online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots roulette blackjack live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots, video slots, classic slots, 3d slots, roulette, blackjack, live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, live 3 сard poker, live blackjack, live roulette, live holdem, live baccarat, deposits boku payforit paysafecard visa ukash zimpler neteller entropay, boku, payforit, paysafecard, visa, ukash, zimpler, neteller, entropay, mobile casinos android casino iphone casino ipad casino, android casino, iphone casino, ipad casino, guides gambling regulation territories saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia alberta ontario quebec atlantic provinces, gambling regulation, territories, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, alberta, ontario, quebec, atlantic provinces, canada english canada french schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich deutschland united kingdom nederland suomi españa polska, canada french, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, deutschland, united kingdom, nederland, suomi, españa, polska, about us james taylor privacy policy, james taylor, privacy policy, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, gambling regulation saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, best of real money casinos best payout new casino, real money casinos, best payout, new casino]