[find out about covid-19, covid-19 vaccines, and mayo clinic patient and visitor updates., featured conditions, we have a secure online referral service to help you refer patients to mayo clinic and view their clinical results, including:, patient appointments are scheduled monday through friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. local time at each campus, and consultations with mayo physicians also are available during these hours., for fax requests, download a referral form. fill it out on your computer, then print and fax it to the appropriate campus. you’ll receive a response to your fax request within three days., we will need this patient information to schedule an appointment:, we also need to know:, patients with urgent medical or surgical needs are given priority in the appointment system. appointments for non-urgent medical issues are scheduled several days to several weeks in advance. in general, pediatric services are offered only at mayo clinic's campus in rochester, minnesota., once your patient has been seen at mayo clinic, you will receive the following:, you will receive your patient's mayo clinic medical records in a timely manner once he or she is seen. users of carelink, our referring physician portal, will have immediate access to their patients' records and will not receive mailed or faxed reports. our physicians will provide a summary of diagnostic reports and treatments to you as soon as it becomes available. mayo encourages referring physicians to register for a portal account. records will be sent via mail or fax for those providers who do not use the portal., experienced nursing staff is available 24/7 to coordinate direct admission, emergency department evaluation or inpatient consultation for your patients at any mayo clinic hospital location. additionally, safe transport using mayo clinic medical transport can be coordinated for airplane, helicopter and ground transportation through the same phone call - 507-255-2910., physicians direct admission/transfer requests to rochester and mankato, minnesota and la crosse and eau claire, wisconsin, 507-255-2910, physicians in most medical and surgical specialties are available for urgent consultations. call the mayo clinic operator to arrange., business hours: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., during business hours request the doctor of the day. after hours and on weekends, request the on-call physician., arizona: 602-832-8278 602-935-0073, florida: 904-944-3917 904-944-3370, minnesota: 507-512-6632 507-923-2327, mayo clinic respects the relationships you have with your patients and is committed to open communication and prompt follow-up after your patient is seen., we recognize that your patient looks to you as his or her primary provider — and we expect to entrust your patient back to your ongoing care after being seen at mayo clinic. mayo sees patients from all walks of life and is an in-network provider for millions of people. to refer a patient, you don't need to know a mayo clinic staff member or have a previous relationship with us. let us collaborate with you to provide the highest quality patient care., quality and expertise. mayo clinic is continually developing new diagnosis and treatment techniques and refining and improving existing ones. mayo clinic has tertiary and quaternary expertise found in few other medical centers, including novel treatment options and clinical trials., collaboration. working together with medical professionals in the community and around the world has been part of mayo's culture since our founding over 150 years ago. let us collaborate with you to provide the highest quality patient care., ease. click, call or fax — we offer several ways to refer patients, all streamlined to save time for you and your colleagues. use mayo clinic carelink when it's convenient for you to view patient appointment times and subsequent clinical notes and test results., locations. we have major campuses in three regions of the u.s. — rochester, minnesota; jacksonville, florida; and phoenix/scottsdale, arizona — as well as mayo clinic health system locations that serve more than 60 communities in iowa, wisconsin and minnesota. this offers your patients multiple ways to access mayo clinic, no matter where they live., see the list of medical departments and centers at each mayo clinic campus., aug. 18, 2021, these phone numbers will connect you directly with an appointment coordinator in referring physician services at the respective mayo clinic campus. patient appointments are scheduled monday through friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. local time at each campus. consultations with mayo physicians also are available during these hours., for fax requests, download a referral form. fill it out on your computer, then print and fax it to the appropriate campus. you'll receive a response to your fax request within three days., we have a secure online referral service to help you refer patients to mayo clinic and view their clinical results, including:, we will need this patient information to schedule an appointment:, we also need to know:, patients with urgent medical or surgical needs are given priority in the appointment system. appointments for non-urgent medical issues are scheduled several days to several weeks in advance. in general, pediatric services are offered only at mayo clinic's campus in rochester, minnesota., once your patient has been seen at mayo clinic, you will receive the following:, experienced nursing staff is available 24/7 to coordinate direct admission, emergency department evaluation or inpatient consultation for your patients at any mayo clinic hospital location. additionally, safe transport using mayo clinic medical transport can be coordinated for airplane, helicopter and ground transportation through the same phone call., mayo clinic respects the relationships you have with your patients and is committed to open communication and prompt follow-up after your patient is seen., we recognize that your patient looks to you as his or her primary provider — and we expect to entrust your patient back to your ongoing care after being seen at mayo clinic. mayo sees patients from all walks of life and is an in-network provider for millions of people. to refer a patient, you don't need to know a mayo clinic staff member or have a previous relationship with us. let us collaborate with you to provide the highest quality patient care., quality and expertise. mayo clinic is continually developing new diagnosis and treatment techniques and refining and improving existing ones. mayo clinic has tertiary and quaternary expertise found in few other medical centers, including novel treatment options and clinical trials., collaboration. working together with medical professionals in the community and around the world has been part of mayo's culture since our founding over 150 years ago. let us collaborate with you to provide the highest quality patient care.., ease. click, call or fax — we offer several ways to refer patients, all streamlined to save time for you and your colleagues. use mayo clinic carelink when it's convenient for you to view patient appointment times and subsequent clinical notes and test results., locations. we have major campuses in three regions of the u.s. — rochester, minnesota; jacksonville, florida; and phoenix/scottsdale, arizona — as well as mayo clinic health system locations that serve more than 60 communities in iowa, wisconsin and minnesota. this offers your patients multiple ways to access mayo clinic, no matter where they live., physicians in most medical and surgical specialties are available for urgent consultations. call the mayo clinic operator to arrange., see the list of medical departments and centers at each mayo clinic campus., patient appointments are scheduled monday through friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. local time at each campus, and consultations with mayo physicians also are available during these hours., physicians direct admission/transfer requests to rochester and mankato, minnesota and la crosse and eau claire, wisconsin, 507-255-2910, any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the terms and conditions and privacy policy linked below., , a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.org," "mayo clinic healthy living," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research., , this site complies with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here., ][covid-19: advice, updates and vaccine options, provider relations, refer a patient, phoenix/scottsdale, arizona, phone:, international requests, jacksonville, florida, phone:, international requests, rochester, minnesota, phone:, international requests, mayo clinic carelink, referring physician portal, requesting a referral, medical records and summary reports, hospital admissions and transfers, midwest admission and transfer center:, telephone consults with mayo clinic physicians, why refer to mayo clinic, refer a patient, mayo clinic, phoenix/scottsdale, arizona, mayo clinic, jacksonville, florida, mayo clinic, rochester, minnesota, mayo clinic carelink (referring physician portal), requesting a referral, hospital admissions and transfers, why refer to mayo clinic, telephone consults with mayo clinic physicians, referrals, midwest admission and transfer center]provider relations - medical professionals - mayo clinic[featured conditions, quality and expertise., collaboration., ease., locations., quality and expertise., collaboration., ease., locations., privacy policy, notice of privacy practices][request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to professional account, english español português العربية 简体中文, español, português, العربية, 简体中文, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, care at mayo clinic care at mayo clinic appointments locations patient & visitor guide international services medical departments & centers doctors & medical staff patient online services billing & insurance clinical trials international business collaborations about mayo clinic contact us, care at mayo clinic, appointments, locations, patient & visitor guide, international services, medical departments & centers, doctors & medical staff, patient online services, billing & insurance, clinical trials, international business collaborations, about mayo clinic, contact us, health information health information diseases & conditions a-z symptoms a-z tests & procedures a-z drugs & supplements a-z health books healthy living program mayo clinic health letter mayo clinic voice apps healthy lifestyle featured conditions brain tumor, breast cancer, colon cancer, congenital heart disease, heart arrhythmia. see more conditions., health information, diseases & conditions a-z, symptoms a-z, tests & procedures a-z, drugs & supplements a-z, health books, healthy living program, mayo clinic health letter, mayo clinic voice apps, healthy lifestyle, for medical professionals for medical professionals provider relations carelink online referrals continuing medical education mayo clinic laboratories askmayoexpert video center journals and publications, for medical professionals, provider relations, carelink online referrals, continuing medical education, mayo clinic laboratories, askmayoexpert, video center, journals and publications, research research research faculty laboratories core facilities centers & programs departments & divisions clinical trials institutional review board postdoctoral fellowships training grant programs, research, research faculty, laboratories, core facilities, centers & programs, departments & divisions, clinical trials, institutional review board, postdoctoral fellowships, training grant programs, college of medicine and science college of medicine and science mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences mayo clinic alix school of medicine mayo clinic school of continuous professional development mayo clinic school of graduate medical education mayo clinic school of health sciences, college of medicine and science, mayo clinic graduate school of biomedical sciences, mayo clinic alix school of medicine, mayo clinic school of continuous professional development, mayo clinic school of graduate medical education, mayo clinic school of health sciences, giving to mayo clinic giving to mayo clinic give now philanthropy in action frequently asked questions contact us to give, giving to mayo clinic, give now, philanthropy in action, frequently asked questions, contact us to give, request an appointment, find a doctor, find a job, give now, log in to professional account, twitter facebook pinterest youtube, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, refer a patient, resources and support, information for patients, covid-19 resources for providers, covid-19 referral and testing q&a, clinical notes, discharge notes, patient itinerary, radiology and pathology reports, test results, surgical summaries, visit summaries, name, address, phone number, date of birth, mayo clinic registration number, if a previous patient, type of insurance, such as hmo, workers’ compensation, medical assistance, nature of medical issue, your referring physician national provider identifier (npi) number, services you would like mayo clinic to provide, phone: 855-404-9033 phone: 844-249-0337, fax: 480-301-4071, from outside the u.s.: 602-825-2465 (phone) or 480-301-4071 (fax) from outside the u.s.: 602-900-1201 (phone) or 480-301-4071 (fax), phone: 855-707-0293 (toll-free) phone: 844-835-5664 (toll-free), fax: 904-953-0575, from outside of the u.s.: 904-900-2116 (phone) or 904-953-7329 (fax) from outside of the u.s.: 904-914-7280 (phone) or 904-953-7329 (fax), phone: 888-713-1850 (toll-free) phone: 855-403-3506 (toll-free), fax: 800-321-1368 (toll-free), from outside of the u.s.: 507-512-6236 (phone) or 904-953-7329 (fax) from outside of the u.s.: 507-516-0443 (phone) or 904-953-7329 (fax), clinical notes, discharge notes, patient itinerary, radiology and pathology reports, test results, surgical summaries, visit summaries, name, address, phone number, date of birth, mayo clinic registration number, if a previous patient, type of insurance, such as hmo, workers' compensation, medical assistance, nature of medical issue, your referring physician national provider identifier (npi) number, services you would like mayo clinic to provide, medical records and summary reports, you will receive your patient's mayo clinic medical records in a timely manner once he or she is seen. users of carelink, our referring physician portal, will have immediate access to their patients' records and will not receive mailed or faxed reports. our physicians will provide a summary of diagnostic reports and treatments to you as soon as it becomes available. mayo encourages referring physicians to register for a portal account. records will be sent via mail or fax for those providers who do not use the portal., business hours: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. during business hours request the doctor of the day. after hours and on weekends, request the on-call physician., arizona: 602-777-3032 arizona: 602-892-0749, florida: 904-944-3394 florida: 904-914-7050, minnesota: 507-512-3357 minnesota: 507-923-2319, arizona: 855-404-9033 arizona: 844-249-0337, florida: 855-707-0293 florida: 844-835-5664, minnesota: 888-713-1850 minnesota: 855-403-3506, carelink online referrals, download a fax referral form, home, provider relations, request appointment, contact us, about mayo clinic, employees, find a job, site map, about this site, twitter, facebook, pinterest, youtube, terms and conditions, privacy policy, notice of privacy practices, notice of nondiscrimination, manage cookies]