[the thomas jefferson building is open to visitors with free timed-entry passes every tuesday through saturday. visitor hours are listed below:, , closed sundays, mondays, thanksgiving, & christmas, a limited number of same-day passes are made available each open day at 9:00 a.m. est. an individual can reserve up to (10) timed-entry passes for their visit., please note: your timed-entry pass gains you entry to the library’s public spaces and exhibitions. if you are interested in research, please visit this page to learn more., the well-being of visitors and staff is the library’s top priority. we have adjusted the visitor experience to meet current local and national health and safety guidelines. visitors must abide by all library guidelines, including those listed below and on the library’s website, as well as any that are posted at the library or provided by staff during the visit. if a visitor or a member of their party fails to follow these guidelines and instructions, they may be denied entry or be asked to leave the premises., please review the following requirements and acknowledge your compliance below:, • timed entry: every library of congress visitor, regardless of age, must reserve timed-entry passes in order to maintain safe capacity levels in the thomas jefferson building. please bring your digital or printed pass to be scanned with a touchless device when you arrive at the library., o a limited number of timed-entry passes are available for each open day., o visitors can reserve timed-entry passes up to 30 days in advance on a rolling basis., o same-day timed-entry passes are released online at 9:00 a.m. est each open day., o timed-entry pass reservations can be made for up to 10 people., o timed-entry passes may not be sold or transferred. passes are valid only for the issued date and time and are void if altered., o if you cannot visit the library on your scheduled date, you may cancel your pass by contacting veo@loc.gov. passes cannot be transferred to alternate days., o please do not arrive before the entry time on your timed-entry pass., o visitors with timed-entry passes will be able to enter the library until thirty minutes prior to building closure., • masking: masks are optional, but use is encouraged. it is advisable to wear a mask if: close contact cannot be avoided, or you are arriving to the library from a situation or location that required masking., • groups: groups larger than 10 must contact grouptours@loc.gov prior to reserving passes. group reservations may be made up to 60 days in advance. please be advised – voice amplification systems are not permitted inside the thomas jefferson building., • social distancing: individuals, household groups or those visiting together must maintain a safe social distance of at least 6 feet from other visitors. those visiting as a group should remain together. visitors under the age of 16 must be accompanied by an adult. social distancing signage and directions will be found throughout our facilities., • guided experiences (tours): the library of congress is not currently offering guided experiences or tours. your visit will be self-guided, but we have created a digital pathway to help you navigate library spaces. volunteers are stationed throughout the building to provide information and answer your questions., • safety: please wash and sanitize hands frequently during your visit. hand sanitizing stations are available throughout our facilities., • health screening: anyone who is feeling unwell or has a fever should arrange to visit another day., • security: all visitors must navigate “airport-like” security to enter the thomas jefferson building. we encourage you to limit the number of personal belongings and bags you bring into our facilities as they will be subject to a thorough search. limiting the items you bring will increase your speed through security checkpoints, helping us all maintain a safe social distance., • personal belongings: there is a coat check station available on the ground floor of the thomas jefferson building. backpacks, bags, coats, strollers, and other personal items may be checked at no cost to the visitor., • shopping and dining: the library shop is open whenever the building is accessible to visitors. at this time, there are no on-site dining options for visitors - we encourage visitors to eat and hydrate before entering the building, especially if they have special healthcare needs., • privacy: the library of congress will safeguard the personal information that you submit on this form and use it only for the purpose of facilitating your visit. more on the library’s privacy policy at https://www.loc.gov/legal/privacy-policy/., • self-guiding through the library: please be aware that navigating the library’s public spaces in their entirety will take approximately 90 minutes, and will require about .5 miles of walking. our highest visitation is from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. daily. during this timeframe, there may be long lines to access the main reading room overlook., , , ][am, visitor hours, general information, information for, location, accessibility, sign in/sign up, sign in, sign up, contact person information *, secondary person contact information, group escort information *, group address, visiting the library of congress]thomas jefferson building - guided tours | library of congress[][my reservations, my profile, change password, logout, us edirect privacy policy|, hosted by us edirect|, library of congress privacy policy|, recreation and business management solutions]