[ , hours & directions, museum store, group visits, search the archives, online collections, research room, research files, student resources, lesson plans, this year marks the 75th anniversary of the truman doctrine. featured on our website is a collection of digitized materials related to the truman doctrine. we have also provided a link to the digital collections online in the national archives catalog.,  , 500 w us hwy 24 independence, mo 64050 816-268-8200 | 800-833-1225 fax: 816-268-8295, the museum has just finished a massive renovation of the museum and its exhibitions, the first major renovation in more than 20 years and the largest since the museum opened its doors in 1957., view our museum hours here., , the harry s. truman library and museum is part of the presidential libraries system administered by the national archives and records administration, a federal agency.][welcome to the harry s. truman presidential library and museum, upcoming events, the first amendment: five rights in one! (grades 3–5), voting rights, the constitution, & representative government (grades 6–8), harry s. truman library & museum, museum hours, stay in touch, footer menu]welcome to the harry s. truman presidential library and museum | harry s. truman[view our museum hours here.][museum museum an ordinary man, his extraordinary journey hours/admission lodging information store, museum, an ordinary man, his extraordinary journey, hours/admission, lodging, information, store, library collections library collections online collections maps photographs harry s. truman papers federal records personal papers appointment calendar audiovisual materials collection president harry s. truman's cabinet president harry s. truman's white house staff new materials research procedures truman family genealogy research room regulations to secure these rights freedom to serve, library collections, online collections, maps, photographs, harry s. truman papers, federal records, personal papers, appointment calendar, audiovisual materials collection, president harry s. truman's cabinet, president harry s. truman's white house staff, new materials, research procedures, truman family genealogy, research room regulations, to secure these rights, freedom to serve, events and programs events and programs featured programs, events and programs, featured programs, education education teacher lesson plans we rule: civics for all of us national history day student resources truman library teachers conference truman presidential inquiries student research file the truman footlocker project truman trivia the white house decision center three branches of government electing our presidents teacher workshop high school trivia contest tours, education, teacher lesson plans, we rule: civics for all of us, national history day, student resources, truman library teachers conference, truman presidential inquiries, student research file, the truman footlocker project, truman trivia, the white house decision center, three branches of government, electing our presidents teacher workshop, high school trivia contest, tours, about about support research grants truman library history contact staff volunteer program internships privacy, about, support, research grants, truman library history, contact staff, volunteer program, internships, privacy, the museum hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., monday through saturday and sundays from noon-5 p.m., the museum store is open during museum hours. the research room is open monday through friday except federal holidays., purchase tickets here., the first amendment: five rights in one! (grades 3–5) may 20, 11:15 a.m. to 12:00 p.m., voting rights, the constitution, & representative government (grades 6–8) may 20, 1:15 p.m. to 1:45 p.m., truman library digital collection , national archives catalog, facebook, twitter, instagram, youtube, email, privacy statement, contact, donate]