[concerts from the library of congress will present an exciting spring season, offering both virtual and in-person events—performances, lectures, panels and much more. we are pleased to announce our upcoming events below. sign up here for updates., audiences, artists and art—these are our watchwords as we continue to navigate the challenges of our times., a spectacular series of spring events celebrates our return to concerts in the library’s intimate coolidge auditorium. we invite you to experience memorable encounters in this extraordinary acoustic space. join us for a wonderfully rich mix: chamber music concerts with out-of-the-ordinary repertoire; performances by two latin jazz masters; and a diverse and panoramic outlook on new music in america ranging across genres, styles and traditions., opening the season on april 29, nuevo tango pianist and composer pablo ziegler performs his own music and classics by astor piazzolla with his jazz tango trio. may events offer a sneak preview of castor and patience, a new opera by gregory spears and former poet laureate and pulitzer prize-winner tracy k. smith. violinist johnny gandelsman plays adventurous pieces by five women composers, drawn from this is america: 22 commissions capturing composers’ eloquent reflections on the “times we find ourselves in.”, known for incandescent concerts melding jazz and classical music, afro-cuban rhythms, funk and electronica, pianist roberto fonseca appears with his trio. a three-part project honors rediscovered composers suppressed under the nazi regime in europe, featuring the colburn school’s ziering-conlon initiative on recovered voices and canada’s arc ensemble as partners., with an electrifying performance style and unique music blend, flutronix creates an unmissable evening. composer-performers allison loggins-hull and nathalie joachim unwrap new works for flute, anchored by deep connections to issues of culture, community and social justice: music to open the mind and lift the spirit. flutronix also makes an exploratory foray into the 1,600+ flutes in the library’s dayton c. miller collection., browse our ongoing offerings of virtual events, including short, engaging educational videos from artists on our roster, and excellent lectures on jazz legends louis armstrong and mary lou williams. and stay tuned for june events, announced here on may 15—and the world premieres of two library of congress commissions, we know that there is great interest in learning about our spring season and particularly live events and how to attend them. the best way to be notified about developments is to sign up for updates here or be on the lookout in this space for news and updates. thank you for your continued support of concerts from the library of congress!, we seek to empower audiences with options. we aim to support artists with opportunities to perform safely. and we strive to give the world artistic experiences that elevate us all., you can register online on this site easily to attend any in-person event: just click on the link on our webpage for that event., looking for additional events? you can check out last season’s season-at-a-glance here for access to existing content. you can also check out these special hubs that offer additional exciting material for you to view and read:, starting at 12pm or 8pm on the scheduled premiere date, each video will be available on the following platforms:, missed the premiere? no problem—watch any time on each event page., not all videos will be available on all platforms, and some will be available only for a limited time; check each page for options as the event nears., concerts from the library of congress has a new online platform that brings together the best of pre-existing videos of lectures, concerts, conversations and collection items on a variety of musical topics. audiences can now enjoy from the comfort and safety of home a weekly playlist of recorded programs from across the library curated by music division specialists. originally conceived as a temporary service for our 39,000 listeners at the beginning of the covid-19 pandemic, the pick of the week is now a permanent feature. we will continue creating curated weekly playlists that revisit fascinating conversations, immortalize unforgettable performances in the coolidge, pay tribute to world-class artists and composers, and feature treasures from all over the library. add this to your favorites and join us on the digital stage., all ways to connect, about | press | jobs | donate inspector general | legal | accessibility | external link disclaimer | usa.gov][library of congress, concerts from the library of congress, related resources, more performing arts on:, concerts from the library of congress, view the full season-at-a-glance, how to watch virtual events, pick of the week, connect with the library, find us on, subscribe & comment, download & play, questions]concerts from the library of congress[concerts from the library of congress will present an exciting spring season, offering both virtual and in-person events—performances, lectures, panels and much more. we are pleased to announce our upcoming events below. sign up here for updates., castor and patience may 12 at 7:00 pm, johnny gandelsman may 13 at 8:00 pm, “cuban and puerto rican roots in latin jazz” may 14 at 5:30 pm, roberto fonseca trio may 14 at 8 pm, flutronix may 21 at 8 pm, ziering-conlon initiative for recovered voices may 23 at 8 pm, arc ensemble may 24 at 8 pm, “restitution, restoration and repertoire: new findings in the wanda landowska collection at the library of congress” may 25 at 8 pm, audiences, artists and art—these are our watchwords as we continue to navigate the challenges of our times., we seek to empower audiences with options. we aim to support artists with opportunities to perform safely. and we strive to give the world artistic experiences that elevate us all., you can register online on this site easily to attend any in-person event: just click on the link on our webpage for that event., looking for additional events?, on this site, youtube, missed the premiere?][ask a librarian, digital collections, library catalogs, concerts home, full season-at-a-glance, folklife concerts, radio series, past seasons, support us, for concert news: subscribe to our email list, for music news: subscribe to our performing arts blog, songs of america, performing arts encyclopedia, performing arts reading room, other events at the library, news releases, email subscription, facebook, "in the muse" blog, youtube, flickr (jazz photos), rss feeds, castor and patience may 12 at 7:00 pm this event is a sneak-peek concert preview performance of excerpts from castor and patience by composer gregory spears and pulitzer prize-winner tracy k. smith., johnny gandelsman may 13 at 8:00 pm johnny gandelsman’s this is america captures the sense of a broad vista for new music in our country in 22 commissions for solo violin from a richly diverse group of composers., “cuban and puerto rican roots in latin jazz” may 14 at 5:30 pm roberto fonseca will join a panel of experts, including journalist and npr’s alt.latino host felix contreras, roberto fonseca trio may 14 at 8 pm havana-born pianist, composer, bandleader, roberto fonseca performs music from his ninth solo album yesun., flutronix may 21 at 8 pm flutronix presents a mesmerizing vision of the flute reimagined, featuring selections from this high-octane duo’s unique electro-acoustic repertoire., ziering-conlon initiative for recovered voices may 23 at 8 pm the colburn school’s ziering-conlon initiative for recovered voices encourages the performance and awareness of music by composers suppressed during the years of the nazi regime in europe., arc ensemble may 24 at 8 pm émigrés to israel reclaims noteworthy works by three composers who escaped europe under nazi domination to find a haven in palestine., “restitution, restoration and repertoire: new findings in the wanda landowska collection at the library of congress” may 25 at 8 pm this presentation traces the history of two pleyel harpsichords in the wanda landowska collection, and landowska's lesser-known activities as a composer., throwback thursday, (re)hearing beethoven, the boccaccio project, on this site (each premiere will be embedded in the individual concert page), youtube, view our pick of the week, rss & e-mail, blogs, apps, podcasts, webcasts, itunesu (external link), ask a librarian, contact us]