[switzerland, english, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , canada, english, italia, , polska, , affiliate disclosure, our priority is the reader., our mission is to create additional value and to give swiss players an excellent casino experience on our website. the casinonow switzerland portal is offering free gaming options and useful information, but we also make some money for maintenance. so, we cooperate with partner companies and various online casinos. we receive affiliate commissions for bringing traffic and registrations to their sites., nonetheless, this does not affect the objectivity of our reviews. our experts and authors always remain independent and unscrupulous. we do not accept payments for manipulating our business relationships or highlighting a casino partner as better than the reality., april 19, 2021, 18 min read, casinonow switzerland pays great importance to the objectivity and independence of all our reviews and guides. we believe that only honest reviews are worth the time of our readers. therefore, although we cooperate with some partner companies, you can always be sure that all our reviews are completely impartial., casino rating, 4.9 / 5, casino rating, review and rating of scores is carried out according to many criteria. to evaluate online casinos, their reliability and safety, license, convenience, popularity in a particular country, the payment methods offered and the variety of game developers are checked., it’s not easy nowadays to find the best of the best online casinos – be it for swiss players or worldwide. the fact is that there are thousands of online casinos – and new ones are coming out every so often., that being said, we at casinonow have written a review for you of a top-tier casino – that goes by the name woo casino. it quickly rises to become one of the most popular casinos not only in switzerland but also in the world. you can learn more about its games, software, bonuses, etc. by reading the rest of our review., ch, €200 + 200 fs, trust and fairness, 4.9 / 5, games, 4.9 / 5, bonus, 4.9 / 5, customer service, 4.9 / 5, available games, roulette, baccarat, blackjack, poker, live dealer, slots, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1 days, min/max deposit, , payment methods(12), woo casino was created in april 2020 – so, at the time of writing of this review, it leaves us with no big space to talk about its history. it’s a new online casino – one that’s brimming with confidence that it will take over the igaming market in switzerland, at that., woocasino.com is owned by direx n.v. this is a company registered under the rules and regulations of curacao – so, the casino itself has a curacao gaming license. it’s an online casino where the swiss people can have fun – there are many games and bonuses to look forward to., as is the case with every single other online casino – so does woo casino has its strengths and weaknesses. here you can read our list on the top points of each side., advantages:, disadvantages:, one of the best parts about woo casino is that it features a variety of big, handsome bonuses. the first one you can look forward to is the deposit match bonus. for the first deposit, you will get a 100% match up to €100, alongside 150 free spins. for the second deposit, you will get a 50% match up to €100, alongside 50 free spins., also, you will get a reload bonus if you deposit during the weekends. this bonus can climb up to €100 for a 50% deposit match. you will also get additional free spins. and there are several other tournament-style games in which you can compete against other players for various prizes., aside from all the deposit and reload bonuses – there is also a vip ladder program that you can look forward to. and the way it works is very simple – the more you play, the more points you will win (technically it’s tiered in missions that you can complete). and the more points you get, the higher the prizes that you will win., you will start the first tier of 7 missions with free spins prizes. after you reach the second tier of 7 missions, you will get small cash prizes. and the last tier is reserved for big prizes only. if you reach the final, 21st level of the vip ladder, you will get €100,000., as we’ve mentioned before, the company behind woo casino is registered in curacao. the country of curacao issues the curacao gaming license. the gaming authority of curacao is one of the biggest names in igaming. you will see that many of the top-tier legit casinos have a curacao gaming license., other than that, there is software made by some of the biggest developers. and naturally – these are all legit developers, and they implement rng systems in all their games. you can play games made by netent, evolution gaming, microgaming, and other industry giants. all of this guarantees that the experience that you will enjoy at woo casino will be fair and secure., it’s easy to start playing your favorite games in woo casino. all you need to do is follow our casinonow steps below:, the process of registration shouldn’t take more than a few minutes at worst – since all you’ll need to do is write some personal information. be sure to confirm the creation of your account by following the link in your email., use one of the payment methods that the website makes available. once again – this is a very quick process that won’t take more than a few minutes., find the games that you want to play and start playing them for real money – it’s as simple as that., mobile gaming is definitely on the rise – with millions of people reaching out to the mobile platforms for igaming. it’s hardly a challenge to see why this is the case – if you have a mobile device and access to the internet, it means that you will be able to gamble on the go., well, woo casino, as luck would have it, also features compatibility for various mobile gaming devices – including ios devices and android devices alike, among others. and the change is seamless – you won’t even notice any big differences between the two kinds of experiences at woo casino. it’s, after all, a new casino. it would be a big mistake not to feature mobile device support., we’ve already mentioned that, aside from the bonuses, the games at woo casino are a big part of the entire gaming experience at woo casino. if you’re a fan of igaming – you will be delighted to learn that there are several hundred games that you can play at woo casino., there are slots, roulette games, live games, blackjack games, baccarat games, and others. all of them come in different variants with special rules to keep things fun. the lobby is always full of people that take delight in playing the games at woo casino. you can read our lists on some of the best games at woo casino below., the slots are some of the most popular games in igaming. they are all fun and simple – all you need to do is push the spin button after you have wagered a bet. and the game takes over the rest. they are highly addictive. here’s our list of the top 5 slots at woo casino., this list is not exhaustive by any means. if you want to see the whole list of woo casino slots, feel free to scroll the game page on the website. you will see that there are hundreds more slots that you can play at your leisure – and the vast majority of them are high-quality, fun games., there is no lack of table games at woo casino either. you can play a variety of different table games – including roulette, blackjack, baccarat, and others. if you’re a fan of these games, then you will have a delightful experience with them at woo casino., you will get to feel like you’re in a real casino by playing some of the roulette and blackjack games above. as you can see, the rtp rates of the games are nothing to laugh at – they are rather high. so, if you want to increase your chances of winning – be sure to play some of these games., live dealer games are also an important part of the entire igaming experience. they are a bridge between the online gambling experience and the land-based casino gambling experience. and luckily, there are dozens of them at woo casino., as you may have noticed by reading the previous paragraph – evolution gaming is one of the key providers of games at woo casino. you can play blackjack classic, blackjack vip, speed blackjack, blackjack ruby, american roulette, lightning roulette, regular roulette, and many other live games. all of these games are operated by skilled croupiers and dealers – and you’re guaranteed to have a fun experience playing them in this swiss-based casino., betting limits are also highly important when it comes to online gaming. swiss players need to have a sense of freedom when making their bets. there is something for everyone at woo casino. so, what are the betting limits in the games at woo casino?, for example, if you play zeus lightning reels slot, then the smallest bet you can wager is 10 cents. the biggest bet, on the other side, is €20, per spin. the minimum bet in the slot game zombie slot mania is 0.5 coins – and the largest is 500 coins. you can wager 0.1 coins up to 200 coins in some of the available roulette games on the platform. and so on and so forth., the casino software is also an important piece of the puzzle of online gaming. the better the companies that provide games – the better your overall experience will be. there are several big names you can look forward to seeing at woo casino. check out some of them in our list below:, so, if you play practically any game made by one of these developers, you’re all but guaranteed to have a great time. they have fantastic production values and fun gameplay. they are also versatile in their volatility and the size of the min/max bets., it’s well important to have a variety of payment methods that you can use for making deposits and withdrawals. the more payment methods you have – the better. you will be able to choose by selecting the fastest, simplest to use, and cheapest payment method if the casino offers it., if you use some of the abovementioned payment methods, then you’re guaranteed a quick, safe, and cheap transaction – in most cases, free of costs. feel free to pick whichever payment method suits you most – and there is no harm done in choosing multiple payment methods and using them concurrently., now, this is the first place where woo casino doesn’t get a 10/10 mark. and this is not to say that they customer support is bad, per se. the team will still do their best to help you out as quickly as possible. however, there are still some reports of people that weren’t satisfied with the speed at which the customer support team responded. so, this section may need some improvement – though we have to stress the fact that customer support is a frequent problem for new casinos – and one that they often manage to resolve and improve upon promptly., that being said, you can still contact them in a few ways. you can write a quick email, use the live chat option, or dial a telephone. customer support for the swiss players at woo casino is not available 24/7, you will need to contact them in the time they’re available. we hope that they will fix this important part of their game soon – and that the customer support team will begin serving the customers properly., woo casino is committed to the idea that you should never take gambling seriously, as your hobby can spiral out of control. so, you should always strive to maintain a healthy relationship with gambling and to gamble responsibly., if you feel that you’re losing grips with your gambling passion – then you can contact the staff at woo casino. they can put you on a self-exclusion list so that you won’t be able to play against your will. also, the staff can set deposit limits that you won’t be able to breach., lastly, you can contact gamcare.org, gordonhouse.org, gamblersanonymous.org, spielersuchthilfe.at, or cafe-beispiellos.de for support on keeping your gambling passion under control., the user interface at woo casino is excellent. everything is where it should be – you can gain immediate access to the games that are neatly organized in different categories based on their types., also, if you wish to register an account here, the entire process is as straightforward as it gets. you just the registration button and a new menu pops out. write the information required and you’re all set., the entire atmosphere of the casino is both inviting and friendly. it won’t be a trouble for you to find your way on the platform as the website designers had the user experience in mind when creating it. if you want to access the lobby where you can select the games you want to play, then all you need to do is log into your account and select the lobby. you can then start playing your favorite games on the platform immediately., player comment:, “players will cherish the number of games that woo offers. there are many top developers like quickspin, elk studios, and red tiger. there are games with nordic and greek mythology, fantasy and horror games, historic event games, and others”‘’have lots of fun playing here. never noticed any bad things about the casino. supportive vip stuff, always there for you and always have something nice to offer.’’, there are no other gambling products at woo casino aside from the classic gambling games like roulette, slots, blackjack, and the like. you won’t be able to play poker or indulge in online sports betting of any kind. woo casino is a classic online casino that only does what it does best – and it doesn’t branch out in other categories., however, time will tell whether woo casino will indeed begin branching out and offering new experiences to the players. keep your eyes open and check the main page of the woo casino website every once in a while to keep up with the latest developments., aside from the fact that the customer support is slow to respond to the swiss players with inquiries – we really have no other bad remarks about woo casino. the games are fun and many, the atmosphere is friendly and inviting – the casino is licensed under the curacao gaming commission., all of these things combine to provide for you a classic igaming experience no matter who you are. people from switzerland are also welcome – they too can use one or more of the big bonuses that woo casino offers. we hope that you will have a fun, fantastic time at woo casino – and we hope that you’ve found value in our extensive casinonow review., chief editor, michael dreher is a passionate lover of the casino industry, having seen the entertaining side of the gaming scene from a young age. born in switzerland, michael is an english-fluent casino expert who has devoted his time and energy to understanding the industry, passing on must-have expertise to casino gamers across switzerland and beyond., switzerland, english, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , canada, english, italia, , polska, , you are in safe hands, our recommended casinos have been certified by, sign up for +350 free spins!, to subscribe to the casinonow newsletter, just enter and confirm your e-mail address in the form above. attention, all players and newsletter subscribers must be over 18 years old. by subscribing to the newsletter, you also confirm that you have read and accepted our privacy policies, cookie policies, and terms of use., swiss-casino-now.com website is certified by, disclaimer: casinonow switzerland pays great importance to the fact that all information on our portal is current and verified. as new data is emerging daily, we reserve the right to change the information on our website at any time without any explanation. it is the responsibility of the player to check that the information on our site is still current before registering with the chosen casino. we warn that playing online casino games has entertainment purposes, but the player should always be aware of the serious financial risks. for this reason, players should also know about responsible gambling and gambling laws in their country of residence. we highly recommend this. if you find any discrepancy of information on our portal or in reviewed online casinos, such as bonus offers, available payment methods, or general information, we ask you to contact us so that we can quickly update the information., casinonow switzerland is a free online casino portal dealing with all topics related to local gambling. our mission is to gather valuable information for swiss players so that they have a greater understanding of the swiss gambling market. here you will find a wide range of reviews, guides, and the latest news on the world of casinos. we may partner with some casino companies, but we always keep an objective and independent opinion in all our reviews and the information we present.,  , address bahnhofstrasse 10 / börsenstrasse 18, 8001, zürich, schweiz, phone no. +41 (78) 434-56-25, copyright © 2017-2021 swiss-casino-now.com all rights reserved][review of woo casino (2022), general information of woo casino, worth knowing about the operator of the site, overview, advantages and disadvantages, bonus offers of woo casino, loyalty and vip program, security and fairness, how to start playing in woo casino, register an account on the platform, deposit some money, find the games, platforms and mobile gaming, games variety of woo casino, popular slots at woo casino, popular table games at woo casino, live dealer games of cookie casino, betting limits in games of woo casino, woo casino software, deposits and withdrawal, customer support at woo casino, responsible gaming, woo casino user experience, other products of woo casino, woo casino conclusion, about the author]review of woo casino 2022 - get €200 and 200fs![woo casino, it quickly rises to become one of the most popular casinos not only in switzerland but also in the world., it’s a new online casino, woocasino.com is owned by direx n.v., woo casino has its strengths and weaknesses, deposit match bonus., 7 missions with free spins prizes., and they implement rng systems in all their games., it’s easy to start playing your favorite games in woo casino., register an account on the platform, register an account on the platform, deposit some money, deposit some money, deposit some money, find the games, find the games, compatibility for various mobile gaming devices, you will be delighted to learn that there are several hundred games that you can play at woo casino., here’s our list of the top 5 slots at woo casino., there is no lack of table games at woo casino either., live dealer games are also an important part of the entire igaming experience., swiss players need to have a sense of freedom when making their bets., the casino software is also an important piece of the puzzle of online gaming., choose by selecting the fastest, simplest to use, and cheapest payment method, now, this is the first place where woo casino doesn’t get a 10/10 mark., you should never take gambling seriously, as your hobby can spiral out of control., the user interface at woo casino is excellent., the entire atmosphere of the casino is both inviting and friendly., player comment:, disclaimer, address, phone no., swiss-casino-now.com][about, switzerland english schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich canada english italia polska, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, canada english, italia, polska, casinos, online slots, casino games, casinonow, , reviews, , woo casino, quickly growing in popularity – thousands of new players come here on a daily basis, the casino provides an outstanding igaming experience in a friendly way – the atmosphere is terrific, there is a big variety of games, , , , , , , , , , , , , advantages and disadvantages, bonus offers of woo casino, security and fairness, how to start playing in woo casino, platforms and mobile gaming, games variety of woo casino, woo casino software, deposits and withdrawal, customer support at woo casino, responsible gaming, woo casino user experience, other products of woo casino, woo casino conclusion, exciting promotion bonuses. you can read all about it in one of the following sections of this article – but for now, you should be aware that you can get several hundred dollars for free – including several hundred free spins that you can then use on your favorite slots., there is a big variety of games. there are hundreds of slots to play – and there are roulette games, blackjack games, and baccarat games., quickly growing in popularity – thousands of new players come here on a daily basis., the casino provides an outstanding igaming experience in a friendly way – the atmosphere is terrific., there is no 24/7 customer support. many online casinos have the feature of at least offering 24/7 live chat to the customers. this is not the case with woo casino., find your best сookie сasino woo casino playamo casino joo casino maneki casino, сookie сasino, woo casino, playamo casino, joo casino, maneki casino, casino reviews сookie сasino woo casino playamo casino joo casino maneki casino bob casino house of jack casino betchain casino betchan casino casino mate lucky days casino spinia casino, сookie сasino, woo casino, playamo casino, joo casino, maneki casino, bob casino, house of jack casino, betchain casino, betchan casino, casino mate, lucky days casino, spinia casino, casino games, online slots, switzerland english schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich canada english italia polska, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, canada english, italia, polska, about michael dreher, michael dreher, casino reviews betchain casino betchan reviews casino mate joo casino house of jack, betchain casino, betchan reviews, casino mate, joo casino, house of jack, casino games, online slots]