[canada, english, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, switzerland, english, österreich, , italia, , polska, , april 19, 2021, 9 min read, our priority in casinonow canada is to guarantee locals an excellent experience playing online casinos. our tests & reviews are always unbiased. sometimes an online casino is 100% convincing and we decide to partner with it. however, this does not affect the objectivity of our assessment., casino rating, 5 / 5, casino bewertung, review and rating of scores is carried out according to many criteria. to evaluate online casinos, their reliability and safety, license, convenience, popularity in a particular country, the payment methods offered and the variety of game developers are checked., it seems that the internet is flooded with new online casinos. in a time of global pandemic, people turn to hobbies that they can enjoy from the comfort of their own homes. and one of them is online gambling. if you’re interested in finding the select best online casinos – then we have a suggestion for you. woo casino may very well be the answer to your prayers – with its library of hundreds of different games across various categories and with its solid offer of bonuses. in this woo-casino review, you will get to learn exactly what woo casino has to offer. enjoy., woo casino is an online casino that’s owned and operated by direx n.v, licensed and regulated by antillephone n.v. (license number 8048/jaz2020-013). direx n.v. is a company that runs several popular online casinos whose specialties are that they offer cryptocurrency payment methods. right at the outset, we have to mention that woo casino is one of the top online casinos that we’d wholeheartedly recommend to anyone interested in online gambling., we’ll review for you its plethora of fun casino software made by top developers such as evolution gaming, pragmatic play, and many others. and there is a bonus for everyone, like free spins, a match bonus, and the like. so, if you want to learn more about what this online casino has on offer, then be sure to see rest of our woo casino review below., so, what are some of the advantages and disadvantages of woo casino? here’s our list on these two categories., advantages:, disadvantages:, the disadvantages are too few and in-between to amount to anything, especially when compared to the several important benefits that the players experience once they visit woo casino. and all in all, woo casino has a lot more advantages than disadvantages., as is the case with the majority of online casinos on the internet, so too is the case with woo casino. you will be able to find several generous real money bonuses here. you can then proceed to use these bonuses on some or all of the available products on the platform. here we’ll review the welcome bonus section, for example the free spins and matches, that you can expect to get at woo casino:, as you can see, there are some nice bonuses at woo casino. we suggest that you see the terms and conditions and learn how to claim the welcome bonus as well as the wagering requirements associated with the various bonuses at woo casino., most of the top online casinos have a loyalty program of sorts, whereas the players get the chance to collect points as they play and get prizes the higher up they climb on the vip ladder. long story short, the more you play, the bigger the prizes that you will get for it. there are, in total, 21 tiers of the woo casino vip ladder. the first few tiers will reward you with free spins for certain popular slots. then, as you progress, you will start to get rewarded with real money. the final prize that you will get reach the final, 21th level of these bonuses, you will get the grand prize of $100,000., but make no mistake, it’s not easy at all to get the grand prize. for every point, you will need to wager $12.5. the final level on the vip ladder can be achieved once you get 5,000,000 points. so, the math is simple – if you would like to get the final prize in the woo casino’s loyalty program, then you will need to wager $62,000,000. we’re not quite sure that anyone has reached this level now – nor that anyone will reach this level in the future. but on the other hand, claiming the smaller prizes from the vip loyalty program at casino woo is a lot easier., the company that stands behind woo casino is completely legitimate. it’s regulated by the antillephone n.v. (license no. 8048/jaz2020-013). moreover, woo casino is created to be a safe and secure haven for gamblers worldwide – regardless if you live in the united kingdom or anywhere else in the countries where this online casino is available., the online casino itself is licensed by curacao gambling authority. now, this is not one of the most noteworthy authorities in the field of igaming, like, for example, the united kingdom gambling commission, but the curacao gaming license still has its merits. and, in the case of woo casino, there’s no need to be worried about the safety of your data. everything is safe and well-protected with the help of the cutting edge 128bit encryption technology. practically every other review that you will see about the casinos that have this kind of encryption will state that you’re in safe hands., if you want to join the other players at woo casino and play the available games, then you’re welcome to do so. all you will need to do is follow the simple steps below:, generally, the sign up steps are very simple and easy in all online casinos. once you register an account, you can play your favorite games alongside other players regardless if it’s live products, table games, slots, etc., woo casino also provides a mobile gaming experience for the players – that we’ll also review for you. to access this part of the mobile friendly casino, you can either use the mobile website or download the dedicated casino app. both ios and android devices are supported. visit the respective store and you will get to download and install the app in no time., you’ll be able immediately see that woo casino is a modern online casino on all fronts. the players will get to fund their account, or create a new account from scratch, or play the website’s slots on the mobile gaming platform as well. the entire woo casino platform is completely optimized for mobile device use. woo casino has one of the better mobile gaming platforms in the sense of what online casinos in general have to offer. you can also use the same welcome bonus and reload bonus once you make deposits on the mobile gaming platform at woocasino., and now we’ll review to the gaming section at woo casino. once you create a new account at woo casino, you will have immediate access to to the entire gaming library on the platform. casino woo has some of the best casino games to date and there are more than 2,000 products available to play on the platform. and they are made by top software developers, too. you can play games made by companies like red tiger, booming games, betsoft, and many others., as you can see, indie developers like iron dog studio are also featured on woocasino. not many other casinos can brag that they support indie developers. but you can also play games made by top developers such as microgaming, yggdrasil, playtech, play’n go, pragmatic play and many others. keep reading our woo casino review to learn more about the games you can play here., there are many different types of casino games at woo casino, like:, just pick any game that you like within the above sections and you can start playing and have fun. if you’re lucky, you will also have a chance to win big prizes and rewards. don’t forget to use a bonus like the free spins for better gaming experience. below we will review the exact games you can expect to play in this casino., the live dealer games are arguably the centerpiece of woo casino. with such software providers like evolution, it’s not difficult to see why this is the case. at the time of writing, there is more than a dozen new live games at woo casino. you can pick from:, and more. and moreover, there are different versions of the games as made by different software developers. this will keep things fun for the players that wish to have the best of both worlds when it comes to regular gaming and online gaming., there are several options for deposits and withdrawals you can use at woo casino. in total, there are 16 different deposit methods and 15 different withdrawal methods (including various cryptocurrencies). here the most widely used methods at woo casino:, when it comes to customer support, it’s always important to be able to contact the support agents easily. there are two main options that the players can use for this purpose at woo casino:, sadly, there is no phone support at the moment at woocasino. there are players that prefer to use their phones to contact customer service – however, this is not an option that you will find here. but the player can use live chat and email for this purpose, and these two options get the job done. also, the player can visit the faq section for more information and answers to the most frequently asked questions at woocasino., if you find that you have problems with excessive gambling, then it means that it’s a good time to stop for a while. you can do so by contacting customer service, and the agents will apply measures to prevent you from playing against your will – such as self-exclusion. also, there are several websites that you can visit for information and help on dealing with problem gambling, such as:, woo casino is as modern and as cool-looking as it gets. you will be treated to its beautiful dark colors right from the start. there are easy options to use for finding the right games for you. you can easily select from the dozens of software providers and find their best games. the welcome bonus rewards and free spins can be found easily and you can make an easy payment to fund your account with money – including bitcoin cash and credit cards such as visa, mastercard etc. as such, woocasino gets our biggest compliments as it’s not easy to create such a gripping, beautiful online gambling platform like it., whoa, i was pleasantly surprised to learn that there are around 50 different software providers at woo casino! – jordan, ontario., in the end, online gambling is about playing the best games made by the best developers. and this is exactly what you can expect to play at woo casino. there are other niche products like scratch cards and progressive jackpot games, and these will do well enough to spice things up and keep things interesting for the player. again, woocasino has all it takes to be considered one of the top casinos on the internet., so, we’re at the conclusion of our woo casino review. by now you’re well aware that there are thousands of different games, including slots and live casino games that the player can play. there are different payment methods that you can use for deposits or a withdrawal. chances are that you will find at least one game that you will love here – bet it in the table games section or the live casino section. and the big available bonuses will help you win big prizes and potentially make huge profits. we hope that you have found use of reading our in-depth casino review. so, head on out at woo casino, use one of the payment methods to make a first deposit, and have the time of your life!, the welcome bonus and the reload bonus are ready to be claimed by any new player at the casino. you will also claim a big number of free spins for new slots. make sure to review the wagering requirements so that you can make the best of the bonuses, and to learn the minimum deposit to claim the deposit bonus of your choice. also make it a habit to visit the promotions section every so often to learn if there is any new bonus and promotion., currently, there are no deposit or withdrawal fees that the player will need to pay when making a payment with any payment method at woo casino., you can the service in one of two ways – live chat and email. if you wish for quick answers to simple questions – then use the chat option. if you have a more in-depth question, then use the email contact option, as email can typically used to express oneself better., chief editor, james taylor is the chief editor of casinonow canada portal. this is the professional name of our bilingual go-to guy who adds value to all our work. he has been working as editor-in-chief at casionnow canada since 2018. previously, he studied at the university of quebec in montreal and worked in market research companies., canada, english, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, switzerland, english, österreich, , italia, , polska, , you are in safe hands, our recommended casinos have been certified by, sign up for +350 free spins!, by entering your e-mail here, you confirm your subscription to our newsletter. please be aware that all online players must be of legal age (18+). please confirm that you have read the t&cs and cookies policies, and that you accept the privacy terms., casino-now-canada.com website is certified by, casinonow’s mission is to provide content that aims to help all online casino players in canada. we provide reviews and comparisons between different online casinos according to unique rating criteria. as a result our team deal with different themes such as casino bonuses, payment methods, casino games, software companies and much more. we are independent experts who make useful and up-to-date guides for online players from canada., address 439 university avenue, toronto, ontario, m5g 1y8, phone no. +1 (877) 705-0707, copyright © 2017-2020 casino-now-canada.com all rights reserved][woo casino review 2022, general information of online casino, site preview, brief overview, advantages and disadvantages, bonus offers – get free spins, loyalty and vip program, security & fairness, how to start in woo casino, mobile casino, gaming & platforms, games variety, top 5 popular slots, popular table games, live dealers games, top 5 casino software, deposits and withdrawals options, customer support – live chat & email, responsible gaming, casino user experience, player’s comment, other products of casino, conclusion, woo casino review – faq section, what kinds of bonuses can i get at woo casino?, are there any fees for making a deposit or a withdrawal?, how can i contact customer service?, über den autor]woo casino review >&gt 300 cad + 200fs bonus & top games[woo casino, it seems that the internet is flooded with, top online casinos, welcome bonus section, it’s available for use 24/7., and these will do well enough to spice things up and keep things interesting for the player., win big prizes and potentially make huge profits, casino-now-canada.com , address, phone no., casino-now-canada.com][about us, canada english schweiz deutsche suisse français switzerland english österreich italia polska, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, switzerland english, österreich, italia, polska, casinos, bonuses, slots, games, deposits, software, casinonow, , casino reviews, , woo casino, advantages and disadvantages, bonus offers – get free spins, security & fairness, how to start in woo casino, mobile casino, gaming & platforms, deposits and withdrawals options, customer support – live chat & email, responsible gaming, casino user experience, other products of casino, conclusion, woo casino review – faq section, woo casino features support for cryptocurrencies and bitcoin cash, alongside other payment methods;, the owner of woo casino, direx n.v. is a legitimate, trusted operator of several top-tier online casinos;, if you’re a fan of slots then you’re in for a treat. there are more than 3,000 slots made by top developers at woo casino;, there is a nice bonus for the new players in the form of several hundred free spins for the slots., woo casino features support for cryptocurrencies and bitcoin cash, alongside other payment methods;, the owner of woo casino, direx n.v. is a legitimate, trusted operator of several top-tier online casinos;, if you’re a fan of slots then you’re in for a treat. there are more than 3,000 slots made by top developers at woo casino;, there is a nice bonus for the new players in the form of several hundred free spins for the slots., the welcome bonuses come in the form of two deposit matches. if you use them properly, then you will be rewarded with a bonus $200 of real money that you can use for gambling. the players have the rights reserved to choose how big of a deposit they’re willing to make – and they will be rewarded appropriately for its size. the first deposit bonus is a match bonus of up to $100, plus 100 free spins. the 2nd deposit will reward you with a 50% deposit match up to $100, with 50 additional free spins. this concludes the welcome bonus package that’s available at the time of writing of this woo casino review., there’s a promotion by the name of snow drift treasures on the woo casino website. if you use one or the available deposit methods and fund your account on any wednesday of no less than $20, then you will be rewarded with up to $250 and additional 50 free spins for the popular new slot game yak, yeti and roll. ro claim this bonus, you will need to write the promo code “yeti” when making a wednesday deposit., there are a few tournaments going on at all times at woo casino. the player will get the chance to compete against other players and win money by playing slot games for as much time as possible. the same goes for the game of roulette. the player will be able to win several hundred dollars of free money if they were to get to the top of the tournament ladders., visit the casino’s official website,, click the red “registration” button in the top right corner of the screen,, write the email address that you would like to be associated with your woo casino account and then write a password. also, select your preferred currency – and click next,, follow through on the registration process and write all the information that the casino requires, like name and address,, in no time, you will have created your new account at woocasino, and then you can do a login,, fund your account with a sum of money that’s equal to or above the minimum deposit at woo casino,, visit the games section and select the particular game you wish to play for real money., live casino games,, table games,, slots,, video poker,, and others., roulette,, blackjack,, baccarat,, craps,, live chat. if you want to have quick answers to your questions by a dedicated team of agents, then use this option. it’s simple to use it and you’ll be connected to a customer support agent in no time. you can then chat up and ask whatever that you’re interested in knowing. all you need to do is log into your account using your email address and password and click the live chat option. it’s available for use 24/7., email support. apart from the live chat, you can use the email customer support contact method. the email option is also a very quick one – you will typically have the answer to your question within a single day. this provides a better platform for you to communicate, as you can express yourself better if you write and email., gamcare.org,, gordonhouse.org,, gamblersanonymous.org., find your best boku microgaming payforit paysafecard visa real money casinos, boku, microgaming, payforit, paysafecard, visa, real money casinos, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, casino games online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots roulette blackjack live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots, video slots, classic slots, 3d slots, roulette, blackjack, live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, live 3 сard poker, live blackjack, live roulette, live holdem, live baccarat, deposits boku payforit paysafecard visa ukash zimpler neteller entropay, boku, payforit, paysafecard, visa, ukash, zimpler, neteller, entropay, mobile casinos android casino iphone casino ipad casino, android casino, iphone casino, ipad casino, guides gambling regulation territories saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia alberta ontario quebec atlantic provinces, gambling regulation, territories, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, alberta, ontario, quebec, atlantic provinces, canada english schweiz deutsche suisse français switzerland english österreich italia polska, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, switzerland english, österreich, italia, polska, about us james taylor privacy policy, james taylor, privacy policy, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, gambling regulation saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, best of real money casinos best payout new casino, real money casinos, best payout, new casino]