[canada, english, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , nederland, , españa, , italia, , advertiser disclosure, our priority is to provide reliable and valuable information to help readers make the right choice in the world of online casinos. casinonow canada is a free casino portal for our visitors, but we do make some money by dealing with casino partners for our maintenance. nevertheless, this doesn’t effect the results of our tests and reviews in any way., our experts always carry out unbiased assessments of the various online casino topics. we provide you with rankings of the best online casinos according to the selection criteria. our main goal is to provide reliable guidance to our loyal readers so that they can have the best gaming experience., april 19, 2021, 20 min read, our priority in casinonow canada is to guarantee locals an excellent experience playing online casinos. our tests & reviews are always unbiased. sometimes an online casino is 100% convincing and we decide to partner with it. however, this does not affect the objectivity of our assessment., the popularity of online blackjack in canada is quite certain as the majority of online casinos offer all kinds of blackjack variants. among many gambling games, blackjack has always been among the most played ones. with the constant improvements of the internet, players can now enjoy playing automatic blackjack and to participate in the live dealing table as well. furthermore, online blackjack is now enabled for mobile platforms and players will have a hard time deciding on the best place to bet. luckily, casinonow experts have already conducted an investigation and guided canadian online blackjack players., some casinos even offer to play for demo credits to improve your skills and practice before players decide to make a deposit and play online for real money. with the automatic blackjack, players can start hands on their own for even more convenience of playing this favorite gambling game online., our casinonow experts have compiled a list for you of some of the best free-to-play online blackjack games that you can find on the internet. as you may know, there are a plethora of blackjack games that are available online. and, best of all, you can play these top 5 blackjack games free of charge., 4.8 / 5, 4.8 / 5, 4.7 / 5, 4.7 / 5, 4.6 / 5, 4.4 / 5, 4.6 / 5, 3.9 / 5, 4.1 / 5, 4.2 / 5, 4.1 / 5, 4.1 / 5, 3.9 / 5, 4.1 / 5, 4.5 / 5, 4 / 5, 4.1 / 5, so, if you ever want to play a solid, free online blackjack game – feel free to consult our list above. it can be difficult to choose the best blackjack game in the canadian online casinos – so our casinonow experts have done the heavy lifting for you and selected only the best of the best., we have already created and shown a table to you detailing some of the best blackjack games on the internet. but what about some of the best online casinos in canada? well, the casinonow experts have researched and analyzed this subject as well. below you will find a table of the top most popular casinos in canada that feature the game of blackjack., ca, 5.0/5, c$1500 + 150 fs, payout rate, 97%, payout time, 2-3 days, min/max deposit, €20 – €10000, payment methods(15), ca, 4.9/5, $200 + 220 fs, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €1000, payment methods(8), ca, 4.8/5, 300 cad + 200 fs, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €10000, payment methods(12), ca, 4.7/5, c$1000 + 200 fs, payout rate, 97%, payout time, 2-3 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €5000, payment methods(8), ca, 4.6/5, c$1000, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1-3 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €5000, payment methods(13), all of the casinos above have a big variety of blackjack games available to the players. if you want to try and play some of the best versions of the game that are available online – then feel free to consult the casinonow table and pick your own preferred casino where you will play blackjack., online blackjack takes one of the world’s favourite casino games and delivers it to gamblers over the internet. now, players can enjoy blackjack online without the hassle of going to a traditional casino. you can play blackjack at an online casino website anytime of the day and from anywhere., so, what is blackjack? it is a card game that combines skill and luck. players aim to draw a hand with a value that is higher than that of the dealer’s hand. however, players must not go over 21. if you go over 21, you “bust” and automatically lose., when it comes to blackjack probability, the rtp rate is one of the most important aspects. the abbreviation stands for return to player and, in layman’s terms, it explains just how big a percentage of the total bets that the game receives will be paid out to the players. so, if a blackjack’s game’s rtp is hypothetically 99% – it means that for every $100 that you wager, you will get $99 paid out as winnings, on average. here’s our casinonow table of some of the blackjack games with the highest rtp rates that you can play in canadian casinos:, as you can see, the odds and probabilities tend to vary quite a bit depending on the rules of the particular blackjack game. if you want to play some of the biggest rtp blackjack games with the biggest blackjack odds payout rates – then pick any one of the games above and use one of the special rules to your advantage., blackjack has been played in traditional casinos for centuries. it is an old game that has remained popular over time thanks to its mixture of skill and luck. the casino game has long been the object of affection for gamblers, casinos, and film., the internet’s boom in the 2000s led to online blackjack becoming the most popular casino game available on the internet. since the formation of the first online casinos, blackjack and its variations have been played. the first virtual casinos debuted in the mid-1990s and early adopters were playing blackjack online shortly thereafter. today, you can find several different versions of the game on popular canadian casino websites., canadians love to play online blackjack. player are well-served online thanks to the number of great internet casinos that offer blackjack. it isn’t just the fun and exhilarating experience that can make playing blackjack a great time. online casinos compete to attract players which means you can benefit from the great incentives on offer. bonuses make playing online card games even better., one of the reasons online blackjack is so popular is because you can play on your smartphone or tablet. you do not have to go to a traditional casino or sit at your desktop computer at home. you can simply play the game you love on your smartphone or tablet while commuting to work, watching tv, or eating dinner., most internet casinos offer you the chance to play blackjack online for free. once you have opened an account, you can sample the blackjack games for free or try them as a demo. some casinos will let you play for free without even opening an account. free online blackjack gives you the chance to ‘try before you buy’. it also allows you to learn the game and practice before playing for real money., the rules of online blackjack are much like the ones used at traditional casinos – you must beat the dealer’s hand without going over 21 to win., blackjack is popular thanks to the amount of money that can be won when playing. in addition, the odds against the house are very good., you can play a number of versions of blackjack online. virtual casinos offer variations of the original blackjack game which keeps you from getting bored. online blackjack canada websites give you the chance to play traditional single-hand blackjack, but you will also find variations such as multi-hand blackjack, win-win blackjack, and much more., many casinos also offer live dealer blackjack which allows you to play against a real-life table dealer. the live dealer will interact with you online as you try to beat the house. it is a fun way to play the game and it offers an authentic online blackjack experience in canada. other popular versions of blackjack include spanish 21, progressive blackjack, and blackjack switch. all can be found online., you no longer have to sit at a desktop computer or laptop to play blackjack online. modern technology makes it possible to play the game on your smartphone or tablet no matter where you are. some online casinos have devoted apps to download while others offer a simple mobile website. either way, you can access the online blackjack games through your smartphone or tablet., online casinos can be accessed using ios or android smartphones and tablets. the convenience offered to players is extraordinary and you can play whenever you choose. as long as your device has an updated operating system and you can access the internet, you should be able to play great blackjack online whenever you want., if you were curious about the game of blackjack, but have never gotten around to learning a proper casino blackjack strategy, including the importance of blackjack odds – then you have come to the right place. our casinonow experts have dedicated a big portion of their time and a lot of effort to provide for you the rundown of the science of blackjack – the probability, return to player and house edge., blackjack is the card game available in every reputable online casino for canadian players – and one of the reasons why this is the case is that it involves skill, as knowledge of blackjack statistics, blackjack probability, and blackjack odds can turn the tables around in your favor. if you know your math, then you can dramatically improve your odds of making blackjack profits in the long run – and vice versa. we have also created a helpful blackjack odds table comparing the probabilities and odds when it comes to making certain moves in blackjack. so, if you’re interested in learning more – feel free to read the rest of our review of the subject., if you want to get good at blackjack, then you will need to learn a bit of math – specifically, the probability theory. there’s no way around it. the main idea behind this concept can be explained by the probability formula – the number of ways divided by the number of possible events. you can immediately see how easily this formula can be implemented in the game of blackjack., for example, if the sum of the cards that you have in blackjack is 11 or less – then it means that the probability of going bust for the next card is 0%, as there is no way in which you can top 21 with one additional card. so, it would make no sense whatsoever for you to stand at 11 as you can’t lose on your next turn., on the other hand, if the sum of your cards is 12, 13, or 14, for example, then the odds of going bust when you draw your next card are steadily increasing at 31%, 39%, and 56%, respectively. and the higher up you go, closer to 21, the odds of going bust will steadily increase, in turn. if you have 19 as the sum of your cards, then the odds of going bust for the next turn are 85%. finally, if you have 20 as the sum of your cards, then the odds of going bust for the next turn are 95% – and this is in no way a smart bet to make, even though you have a small 5% chance to draw an ace on the next turn and hit the blackjack., the probability theory may seem simple – and that’s because it really is simple. you will need to learn certain probability rates and percentages and keep them in your mind as you play – make it a habit to consult the blackjack odds sheet and to memorize it through and through. this will dramatically improve your odds of winning at blackjack in the long run – and this is a strategical choice that many (most) players fail to implement in their game., the terms “rtp” and “house edge” are very important for everyone involved in gambling. in fact, the two terms are actually the two sides of the same coin. the term “house edge” pertains to the mathematical edge that the casino will have over the player in any hand. the fact that the casino always has an edge over the player shouldn’t surprise – it’s just how the system is designed so that the house will make money in the long run, even though it will pay players out as well., the house edge is measured in percentages. we can take the example of, say, double exposure blackjack, with a house edge of 0.67%. what this means is that the casino has an edge of 0.64% over the player. this may not show in several runs – but it will definitely show in the long run. as for the return to player rate, if you consult our casinonow table for the best blackjack games in canada above, then you will see that the rtp rate is set at 99.33%. if you add up the rtp rate and the house edge percentages, you will get a nice, rounded 100%. rtp stands for how big a percentage of the player’s bets will the casino pay out as winnings. be sure to memorize these terms as knowledge of this simple concept of rtp and house edge and how they interrelate can have a profound effect on your blackjack experience., as we’ve mentioned before, blackjack probability can be heavily influenced by the rule variations of the particular blackjack game. and many variations should be considered – the number of decks used, the payout rate when hitting blackjack, whether you have the option to surrender, whether the dealer will hit or stand on a soft 17, and others. for example, if you have the option to surrender and get half your bet back – then the house edge will decrease by 0.08%. this may not seem like an awful lot – but you should remember that the big percentages are comprised of the sum of the smaller percentages., the number of decks used also has a big influence on the house edge, as well. if one eight decks are used, then the house edge will commensurately increase for 0.64%. if the dealer is forced to hit on a soft 18, then the house edge goes up for 0.21%. certain blackjack variations pay out 3:2 when you hit blackjack. there are other variations, however, that pay out 6:5. if the latter is the case, then the house edge gets increased by 1.30%, which is not a negligible increase at all. as you can see, rule variations have an impact on the house edge and rtp rates of each blackjack game., the basic strategies and probability theory knowledge will help you improve the profitability of your blackjack gaming experience. however, what will decrease the house edge even further is learning the skill to count cards. counting cards pertains to the practice and skill of memorizing the cards that have already passed on the table. notably, the bigger the number of decks that are used – the harder the card counting strategy becomes – and things are exacerbated if the dealer picks up the habit of shuffling the cards after every round., but in regular instances, you can make great use of your skill to count cards. there are memory systems that you can use for this purpose – you don’t need to have godlike intelligence to memorize cards. however, you will need to spend time practicing the memorization of cards – especially in high-pressure scenarios like a real blackjack game –to learn the art of counting cards., the prize of learning this valuable skill is ascertaining the low-value to high-value card ration as the game progresses. this will help you make better tactical decisions in the short run and it will increase the overall rtp rate for any given blackjack round., if you have ever played blackjack, then you know by now that the dealer starts the game with two cards. one of them is facing up – and is visible to everyone – and the other one is facing down and is visible to no one. so, our casinonow experts have created a table for you to see the probabilities of a positive outcome for the player depending on the quality of the dealer’s visible card., in the left column, there’s the particular card that the dealer will have facing up. the second column gives you a probability in percentages of the dealer going overboard and busting out. finally, in the third column, you have the player advantage percentages depending on the up-facing dealer card. as you can see, the second and third columns start low, then go higher up, and then they taper off once again – and the player advantages goes in the negative from 9 and above., by implementing this knowledge and information of the probability theory – you will be able to make much better decisions when progressing in any given game of blackjack – and you will increase the overall rtp rate even more., and here we have a list of blackjack odds that will be of great assistance to you should you decide to implement it. the list consists of two categories – total hand value and probability of going bust., it goes without saying that if the hand value is 11 or less – then there is a 0% chance of going bust on the next turn, as we have mentioned this in one of the previous sections, as well. things start to heat up from 12 and upwards to 21. if there’s a 0% chance to go bust with 11 or less, then there is a 100% to go bust with 21. this is not even a move that you can make – as the round ends if you hit 21 and you either win or you draw – but you never lose., logically, the odds of going bust are steadily increasing as your total hand value increases. for 14, you will have a 56% chance of going bust on the next hit. for 18, you will have a 77% chance of going bust. so, by knowing the probabilities of going bust for your next hit with each card., two important categories have a big influence on the outcome of each blackjack round. the first one is the number of card decks used and the second is the card value and how it determines the probabilities and potential outcomes., the higher the number of card decks used, the higher the house edge gets. as for the value of your cards – there are mathematical probabilities that you can use to gauge the odds of having a certain card value with random two cards – for each round. and these two important subjects are what we will talk about in the following section., the number of decks that the dealer uses for every game of blackjack is important in the sense that it influences the house edge. the bigger the number of decks that are used, the higher the house edge becomes., for example, if the number of decks that are used is only 1, the house advantage is set at only 0.04%. and this is why it gets increasingly more difficult to find online blackjack games in canadian casinos where only one deck is being used. the casinos are privy to the fact that there is more money to be taken if more decks are used., conversely, if 8 card decks are used, then the house edge rises to 0.70%. also, this makes card counting next to impossible – as you will have to memorize a much greater number of cards in this instance. as a rule of thumb, remember to look for the blackjack games where the dealers use a smaller number of card decks – at best, just one., then there are the odds of having a certain card value for any random two cards that you’re dealt at the beginning of each blackjack game. it’s practical to separate the card values into a few bigger categories: the natural 21 blackjack category, the hard standing category, the decision hands category, and the no bust category., the odds of getting a natural 21 blackjack right at the get-go are mathematically set at 4.8%. the odds of getting card value in the hard standing category (17-20) are 30%. the odds of getting card value in the decision hands (2-16) are 38.7%. finally, the odds of hitting a no bust draw are set at 26.5%., if you know the percentages and probabilities when it comes to the first two cards that are dealt to you by the dealer, then you will have a lot easier time in determining the potential outcomes of each individual round of blackjack. and this, in turn, will result in a higher incidence of profitable outcomes as opposed to losing outcomes. this is all a part of the grand blackjack strategy that can dramatically improve your blackjack experience should you implement it properly at the right time., and naturally, the value of the removed cards also influences the big picture. this is where your card counting prowess comes into play. and the removal of different cards from the deck will logically have a different effect on the probability edge for the rest of the game. our casinonow experts have created a list for you that will help you determine the blackjack odds card removal influence on the rest of the game., as you can see, the removal of the higher value cards will have a negative effect on the game’s potential outcome in your favor. and vice versa – if the lower value cards are removed from the deck in play, then it means that the game’s potential outcome will be influenced in a positive way for the player., by combining this information with the card counting data, you will have developed a powerful arsenal of tools and techniques to determine whether the game’s outcome will be a positive one or a negative one. remember to keep your wits about you as it’s very easy to get carried away with the momentum of the game and to make the wrong decisions regarding the probability edge for each card removed from the deck., lastly, we have the analysis of the dealer’s final hand and the probabilities regarding it. this too can be an important statistic in determining the final outcome of the blackjack round. our casinonow experts have determined the probability of getting a certain hand value in the last card for the dealer – and they have formed the hand values in a few broader categories: the natural blackjack, the 21 with more than two hands, 19, 18 and 17, and non-bust (less than 21) and bust (more than 21)., by consulting and memorizing the list above, you will have a pretty strong inkling on what the dealer’s final card may be based on the combination of various factors that you have learned about in this article – and on the fact of the dealer’s final hand probability odds., so, we have come to the end of this comprehensive review of the blackjack odds – the probability, rtp, and house edge. by now you have grasped the importance of knowing what these terms are all about and how this knowledge can help you in making better choices when playing blackjack., and if you want to play online blackjack in canada – then feel free to consult our casinonow lists of some of the best casinos in canada that feature the game of blackjack – for real money, or for free. be sure to use all the strategies and probability theories that we have talked extensively about in this article – as this will dramatically improve your blackjack odds of winning. we hope that the blackjack odds strategies will be used by more players in the future., online blackjack is the most popular casino game for a reason. it combines skill and luck into one brilliant ball of fun. it offers a rush that other casino games do not when you win. online blackjack also gives you the chance to win large jackpots with great odds. there is really no better game for online gamblers than blackjack. whether you are new to online casinos or a veteran, playing blackjack online is fast, fun, and never a dull moment., chief editor, james taylor is the chief editor of casinonow canada portal. this is the professional name of our bilingual go-to guy who adds value to all our work. he has been working as editor-in-chief at casionnow canada since 2018. previously, he studied at the university of quebec in montreal and worked in market research companies., canada, english, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , nederland, , españa, , italia, , you are in safe hands, our recommended casinos have been certified by, sign up for +350 free spins!, by entering your e-mail here, you confirm your subscription to our newsletter. please be aware that all online players must be of legal age (18+). please confirm that you have read the t&cs and cookies policies, and that you accept the privacy terms., casino-now-canada.com website is certified by, casinonow’s mission is to provide content that aims to help all online casino players in canada. we provide reviews and comparisons between different online casinos according to unique rating criteria. as a result our team deal with different themes such as casino bonuses, payment methods, casino games, software companies and much more. we are independent experts who make useful and up-to-date guides for online players from canada., address 439 university avenue, toronto, ontario, m5g 1y8, phone no. +1 (877) 705-0707, copyright © 2017-2020 casino-now-canada.com all rights reserved][best blackjack casinos in canada 2022, top 5 blackjack online free-to-play games, collection of popular blackjack games to play for free, top 5 recommended blackjack casinos in canada 2022, what is online blackjack?, play the blackjack games with the highest rtp rates, how long has online blackjack been around?, is online blackjack popular in canada?, can you play online blackjack in canada for free?, what are the rules of online blackjack?, what are the popular versions of online blackjack?, play online blackjack on mobile, importance of blackjack odds, odds and probability explained, defining rtp and house edge, rule variations and how they influence the house edge, how to beat the casino house odds, odds vs. dealer up card, blackjack odds of busting while taking a hit, blackjack odds: deck and value dependence, house advantage with multiple number of decks, two card frequency odds, probability edge for each card removed from deck, dealer final hand probability odds, using blackjack odds strategy will be a game changer, conclusion, about the author]top online blackjack casinos in canada [real money play][online blackjack, the popularity of online blackjack in canada is quite certain as the majority of online casinos offer all kinds of blackjack variants, some casinos even offer to play for demo credits to improve your skills and practice, play these top 5 blackjack games free of charge., choose the best blackjack game in the canadian online casinos, all of the casinos above have a big variety of blackjack games available to the players, just how big a percentage of the total bets that the game receives will be paid out to the players., play for free without even opening an account, if you were curious about the game of blackjack, but have never gotten around to learning a proper casino blackjack strategy, including the importance of blackjack odds, blackjack is the card game available in every reputable online casino for canadian players, it would make no sense whatsoever for you to stand at 11, make it a habit to consult the blackjack odds sheet and to memorize it through and through., but it will definitely show in the long run., the number of decks used, the payout rate when hitting blackjack, whether you have the option to surrender, whether the dealer will hit or stand on a soft 17, memorizing the cards that have already passed on the table., player advantage percentages depending on the up-facing dealer card., then there is a 100% to go bust with 21., the house advantage is set at only 0.04%., a higher incidence of profitable outcomes as opposed to losing outcomes., powerful arsenal of tools and techniques, combination of various factors, we hope that the blackjack odds strategies will be used by more players in the future., casino-now-canada.com , address, phone no., casino-now-canada.com][about us, canada english schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich nederland españa italia, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, nederland, españa, italia, casinos, bonuses, slots, games, deposits, software, casinonow, , online blackjack, bisherige, 1, 2, 3, 4, nächster, payout rate 97%, payout time 2-3 days, min/max deposit €20 – €10000, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , a huge selection of games available made by top tier software providers, the customer support team is at its best, with live chat, email and phone support, playamo casino is a completely legitimate venture, fully licensed by the top igaming authorities., payout rate 98%, payout time 1 days, min/max deposit €10 – €1000, , , , , , , , , a solid selection of software providers, customer service is available to contact 24/7, live chat option is especially useful in this sense, payout rate 98%, payout time 1 days, min/max deposit €10 – €10000, , , , , , , , , , , , , woo casino features support for cryptocurrencies and bitcoin cash, alongside other payment methods, the owner of woo casino, direx n.v. is a legitimate, trusted operator of several top-tier online casinos, there is a nice bonus for the new players in the form of several hundred free spins for the slots, payout rate 97%, payout time 2-3 days, min/max deposit €10 – €5000, , , , , , , , , thousands of available games that the players can play – made by top tier developers, big welcome deposit bonus for new players in the form of free betting money, dozens of live games to enjoy in the live casino section, payout rate 98%, payout time 1-3 days, min/max deposit €10 – €5000, , , , , , , , , , , , , , fully licensed and legit online casino – owned by the palace group, some of the best games made by reputable developer microgaming, big casino bonuses especially for the new players, what is online blackjack?, play the blackjack games with the highest rtp rates, how long has online blackjack been around?, is online blackjack popular in canada?, can you play online blackjack in canada for free?, what are the rules of online blackjack?, what are the popular versions of online blackjack?, play online blackjack on mobile, importance of blackjack odds, conclusion, a hand begins with a player making an initial bet., the bet takes place before any cards are dealt., the dealer then deals your hand by setting two cards face up., the dealer then deals for themselves with one card facing up and the other one facing down., after the cards are on the table, the player can either hit or stay depending on how close the value of their cards is to 21., if your cards are closer to 21 at the end of the hand, the winnings are paid out 1 to 1., if the dealer busts, you will also be paid at 1 to 1., players that are dealt a blackjack (an ace and a card valued at 10) will be paid out at 3 to 2., 21 points – 100%, 20 points – 92%, 19 points – 85%, 18 points – 77%, 17 points – 69%, 16 points – 62%, 15 points – 58%, 14 points – 56%, 13 points – 39%, 12 points – 31%, 11 points or less – 0%, 2 points – (0.40%), 3 points – (0.43%), 4 points – (0.52%), 5 points – (0.67%), 6 points – (0.45%), 7 points – (0.30%), 8 points – (0.01%), 9 points – (-0.15%), 10 points – (-0.51%), jack card – (-0.51%), queen card – (-0.51%), king card – (-0.51%), ace card – (-0.59%), natural blackjack – 4.82%, 21 (more than 2 cards) – 7.36%, 20 points – 17.58%, 19 points – 13.48%, 18 points – 13.81%, 17 points – 14.58%, non-bust (less than 21) – 71.63%, bust (more than 21) – 28.37%, find your best boku microgaming payforit paysafecard visa real money casinos, boku, microgaming, payforit, paysafecard, visa, real money casinos, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, casino games online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots roulette blackjack live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots, video slots, classic slots, 3d slots, roulette, blackjack, live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, live 3 сard poker, live blackjack, live roulette, live holdem, live baccarat, deposits boku payforit paysafecard visa ukash zimpler neteller entropay, boku, payforit, paysafecard, visa, ukash, zimpler, neteller, entropay, mobile casinos android casino iphone casino ipad casino, android casino, iphone casino, ipad casino, guides gambling regulation territories saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia alberta ontario quebec atlantic provinces, gambling regulation, territories, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, alberta, ontario, quebec, atlantic provinces, canada english schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich nederland españa italia, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, nederland, españa, italia, about us james taylor privacy policy, james taylor, privacy policy, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, gambling regulation saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, best of real money casinos best payout new casino, real money casinos, best payout, new casino]