[welcome! see plan your visit to read about purchasing museum tickets. see research services to read about conducting research. information on upcoming events and education resources also available., , 441 john lewis freedom parkway, ne atlanta, georgia, 30307-1498 fax: 404-865-7102 tel: 404-865-7100, , , tuesday - saturday 10:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m. last admission sale 3:00 p.m., , , tuesday - thursday, 9:30 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. starting may 3, 2022: tuesday - friday, 9:30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. by appointment only, , the museum includes photographs and historical memorabilia from the carter presidency (1977 - 1981)., archivists can provide reference services for the unique historical material available for research in the library's holdings., quality educational materials and experiences for students, educators, and the public., will jawando:  my seven black fathers, monday, may 9 at 7pm, carter presidential museum theater, free and open to the public,  , will jawando tells a deeply affirmative story of hope and respect for men of color at a time when black men are routinely stigmatized. drawing on will’s inspiring personal story and involvement in my brother’s keeper, president obama’s national initiative to address persistent opportunity gaps facing boys and young men of color, “my seven black fathers” offers a transformative way for black men to shape the next generation. the author will appear in conversation with tony lowden, minister to former president jimmy carter.,  , w. chris fabricant:  junk science and the american justice system, thursday, may 12 at 7pm, carter presidential museum theater, free and open to the public,  , from csi to forensic files to the celebrated reputation of the fbi crime lab, forensic scientists have long been mythologized in american popular culture as infallible crime solvers. juries put their faith in “expert witnesses” and innocent people have been executed as a result. innocent people are still on death row today, condemned by junk science. at turns gripping, enraging, illuminating, and moving, “junk science” is a meticulously researched insider’s perspective of the american criminal justice system. previously untold stories of wrongful executions, corrupt prosecutors, and quackery masquerading as science animate fabricant’s true crime narrative., eric holder our unfinished march, may 16th at 7pm location: carter center's cecil b. day chapel tickets available at https://www.acappellabooks.com/pages/events/1028/former-u-s-attorney-general-eric-holder-our face masks required, former attorney general eric holder takes readers through three dramatic stories of how the vote was won: first by white men, through violence and insurrection; then by white women, through protests and mass imprisonments; and finally by african americans, in the face of lynchings and terrorism. next, he dives into how the vote has been stripped away since shelby—a case in which holder was one of the parties. he ends with visionary chapters on how we can reverse this tide of voter suppression and become a true democracy where every voice is heard and every vote is counted., carter presidential library, carter presidential library, news release archive »][, important - please read, contact info, museum hours, research library hours, museum visitors, archival research, educators/kids, events & exhibits, news releases]the jimmy carter presidential library and museum[welcome!, my seven black fathers, junk science and the american justice system, “junk science”, our unfinished march][about us overview plan your visit news releases about the carters friends of library contact us, overview, plan your visit, news releases, about the carters, friends of library, contact us, research overview policies and procedures collections audiovisual collections frequently requested ask an archivist, overview, policies and procedures, collections, audiovisual collections, frequently requested, ask an archivist, museum overview admissions museum store virtual tour museum items ask a curator, overview, admissions, museum store, virtual tour, museum items, ask a curator, education overview student programming professional development teacher resources ask an education specialist senior community distance learning we rule! civics for all of us national history day, overview, student programming, professional development, teacher resources, ask an education specialist, senior community distance learning, we rule! civics for all of us, national history day, events, get involved overview volunteer and internships membership citizen archivist dashboard, overview, volunteer and internships, membership, citizen archivist dashboard, contact us, about us overview plan your visit news releases about the carters friends of library contact us, overview, plan your visit, news releases, about the carters, friends of library, contact us, research overview policies and procedures collections audiovisual collections frequently requested ask an archivist, overview, policies and procedures, collections, audiovisual collections, frequently requested, ask an archivist, museum overview admissions museum store virtual tour museum items ask a curator, overview, admissions, museum store, virtual tour, museum items, ask a curator, education overview student programming professional development teacher resources ask an education specialist senior community distance learning we rule! civics for all of us national history day, overview, student programming, professional development, teacher resources, ask an education specialist, senior community distance learning, we rule! civics for all of us, national history day, events, get involved overview volunteer and internships membership citizen archivist dashboard, overview, volunteer and internships, membership, citizen archivist dashboard, contact us, museum store, virtual tour, plan your visit, policies and procedures, collections, frequently requested, school tours and programs, teacher resources, professional development for teachers, my seven black fathers may 1, 2022-may 10, 2022 will jawando:  my seven black fathers monday, may 9 at 7pm carter presidential museum theater free and open to the public   will jawando tells a deeply affirmative story of hope and respect for men of color at a time when black men are routinely stigmatized. drawing on will’s inspiring personal story and involvement in my brother’s keeper, president obama’s national initiative to address persistent opportunity gaps facing boys and young men of color, “my seven black fathers” offers a transformative way for black men to shape the next generation. the author will appear in conversation with tony lowden, minister to former president jimmy carter.  , my seven black fathers may 1, 2022-may 10, 2022 will jawando:  my seven black fathers monday, may 9 at 7pm carter presidential museum theater free and open to the public   will jawando tells a deeply affirmative story of hope and respect for men of color at a time when black men are routinely stigmatized. drawing on will’s inspiring personal story and involvement in my brother’s keeper, president obama’s national initiative to address persistent opportunity gaps facing boys and young men of color, “my seven black fathers” offers a transformative way for black men to shape the next generation. the author will appear in conversation with tony lowden, minister to former president jimmy carter.  , junk science and the american justice system may 5, 2022-may 12, 2022 w. chris fabricant:  junk science and the american justice system thursday, may 12 at 7pm carter presidential museum theater free and open to the public   from csi to forensic files to the celebrated reputation of the fbi crime lab, forensic scientists have long been mythologized in american popular culture as infallible crime solvers. juries put their faith in “expert witnesses” and innocent people have been executed as a result. innocent people are still on death row today, condemned by junk science. at turns gripping, enraging, illuminating, and moving, “junk science” is a meticulously researched insider’s perspective of the american criminal justice system. previously untold stories of wrongful executions, corrupt prosecutors, and quackery masquerading as science animate fabricant’s true crime narrative., junk science and the american justice system may 5, 2022-may 12, 2022 w. chris fabricant:  junk science and the american justice system thursday, may 12 at 7pm carter presidential museum theater free and open to the public   from csi to forensic files to the celebrated reputation of the fbi crime lab, forensic scientists have long been mythologized in american popular culture as infallible crime solvers. juries put their faith in “expert witnesses” and innocent people have been executed as a result. innocent people are still on death row today, condemned by junk science. at turns gripping, enraging, illuminating, and moving, “junk science” is a meticulously researched insider’s perspective of the american criminal justice system. previously untold stories of wrongful executions, corrupt prosecutors, and quackery masquerading as science animate fabricant’s true crime narrative., our unfinished march may 6, 2022-may 17, 2022 eric holder our unfinished march may 16th at 7pm location: carter center's cecil b. day chapel tickets available at https://www.acappellabooks.com/pages/events/1028/former-u-s-attorney-general-eric-holder-our face masks required former attorney general eric holder takes readers through three dramatic stories of how the vote was won: first by white men, through violence and insurrection; then by white women, through protests and mass imprisonments; and finally by african americans, in the face of lynchings and terrorism. next, he dives into how the vote has been stripped away since shelby—a case in which holder was one of the parties. he ends with visionary chapters on how we can reverse this tide of voter suppression and become a true democracy where every voice is heard and every vote is counted., our unfinished march may 6, 2022-may 17, 2022 eric holder our unfinished march may 16th at 7pm location: carter center's cecil b. day chapel tickets available at https://www.acappellabooks.com/pages/events/1028/former-u-s-attorney-general-eric-holder-our face masks required former attorney general eric holder takes readers through three dramatic stories of how the vote was won: first by white men, through violence and insurrection; then by white women, through protests and mass imprisonments; and finally by african americans, in the face of lynchings and terrorism. next, he dives into how the vote has been stripped away since shelby—a case in which holder was one of the parties. he ends with visionary chapters on how we can reverse this tide of voter suppression and become a true democracy where every voice is heard and every vote is counted., see all events »]