[our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article., ireland, lying to the west of britain, has always been to some extent cut off by it from direct contact with other european countries, especially those from sweden to the rhine river. readier access has been through france, spain, and portugal and even, …that gave the government of ireland an official consultative role in the affairs of northern ireland. considered one of the most significant developments in british-irish relations since the establishment of the irish free state in 1922, the agreement provided for regular meetings between ministers in the irish and british governments…, the ties to britain and ireland were scarcely affected by immigration from other sources until then. the complex demographic textures in australia at the beginning of the 21st century contrasted quite sharply with the homogeneity of the country during the first half of the 20th century. although some nine-tenths of…, when irish republican agitation intensified after world war i, a large proportion of the irish police resigned. they were replaced by these temporary english recruits—mostly jobless former soldiers—who were paid 10 shillings a day., …from the organization, as did ireland (1949), south africa (1961), and pakistan (1972), though both south africa and pakistan eventually rejoined (the former in 1994 and the latter in 1989)., …the union of south africa, eire, and newfoundland. although there was no formal definition of dominion status, a pronouncement by the imperial conference of 1926 described great britain and the dominions as “autonomous communities within the british empire, equal in status, in no way subordinate one to another in any…, new zealand, south africa, ireland, and newfoundland., …in the remote land of ireland, introduced there initially by the patron saints of ireland—patrick, bridget, and columba—who established schools at armagh, kildare, and iona. they were followed by a number of other native scholars, who also founded colleges—the most famous and greatest university being the one at clonmacnois, on…, …1998, and ratified in both ireland and northern ireland by popular vote on may 22 that called for devolved government in northern ireland., >ireland in 1845–49 when the potato crop failed in successive years. the crop failures were caused by late blight, a disease that destroys both the leaves and the edible roots, or tubers, of the potato plant. the causative agent of late blight is the, …ireland, and the reunification of ireland., …2008, but a referendum in ireland—the only country that put the lisbon agreement to a public vote—rejected it on june 12, 2008, thus jeopardizing the entire treaty. more than a year later, on october 2, 2009, ireland held a second referendum, which passed. poland’s government also had expressed reservations, but…, …5th century the conversion of ireland, the first christianized territory that had never been part of the roman empire, brought the particularly irish ascetic practice of self-exile to bear on missionary work. in the 6th century the irish monk columba (c. 521–597) exiled himself to the island of iona, from…, …cork became a centre of irish nationalist resistance to british military and police repression, and parts of the city were burned by british forces in retaliation for an ambush on a convoy carrying members of the elite auxiliary division of the royal irish constabulary (ric). two of the city’s lord…, in britain and ireland, forest clearance as early as 4700 bce may represent the beginnings of agriculture, but there is little evidence for settlements or monuments before 4000 bce, and hunting-and-gathering economies survived in places. the construction of large communal tombs and defended enclosures from 4000 bce may…, …orange society, byname orangemen, an irish protestant and political society, named for the protestant william of orange, who, as king william iii of great britain, had defeated the roman catholic king james ii., hundreds of thousands of irish emigrants went to scotland in the 19th century, beginning prior to but increasing in number during the irish potato famine of 1845–49. in some country regions there was a population decrease as people moved to the towns, to england, or overseas. part of the…, scandinavian invasions of ireland are recorded from 795, when rechru, an island not identified, was ravaged. thenceforth fighting was incessant, and, although the natives often more than held their own, scandinavian kingdoms arose at dublin, limerick, and waterford. the kings of dublin for a time felt strong enough…, …conversion of the peoples of ireland, wales, and england to christianity, the recording of their regal traditions began. it was natural for the first chroniclers, who were mostly monks, to write down the oral pedigrees of the kings in whose realms they lived. students of the irish regal pedigrees are…, ireland was a special problem in imperial regulation. it was in strict political dependency on england and internally subject to the ascendancy of an anglo-irish protestant minority that owned the bulk of the agricultural land. roman catholics were excluded by a penal code from political…, as viceroy of ireland (1798–1801), cornwallis won the confidence of both militant protestants (orangemen) and roman catholics. after suppressing a serious irish rebellion in 1798 and defeating a french invasion force on september 9 of that year, he wisely insisted that only the revolutionary leaders be punished. as…, …national self-sufficiency in an irish-speaking ireland while building up industries behind protective tariffs. in a new constitution ratified by referendum in 1937, the irish free state became ireland (in irish, éire), a sovereign, independent democracy tenuously linked with the british commonwealth (under the external relations act of 1936) only for…, essex returned from ireland against the queen’s orders, insulted her in her presence, and then made a desperate, foolhardy attempt to raise an insurrection. he was tried for treason and executed on february 25, 1601., in 1171 he annexed ireland and obtained direct control of the eastern part of the island and nominal control of the remainder. finally, from 1174 to 1189, william i the lion, king of scotland, captured in a skirmish in 1174, was obliged to accept henry as his overlord., …a policy of concession in ireland, with reference to which he originated the phrase “a union of hearts,” which long afterward became famous when his use of it had been forgotten. in 1780 richmond embodied in a bill his proposals for parliamentary reform, which included manhood suffrage, annual parliaments, and…, ), english lord deputy of ireland from 1540 to 1548, 1550 to 1551, and 1553 to 1556. considered by many historians to be the most able 16th-century english viceroy of ireland, he maintained peace in that country by upholding the feudal privileges of the powerful native chieftains., …the new lord deputy of ireland, arthur lord grey, who was a friend of the sidney family., …london), english lord lieutenant of ireland who suppressed a rebellion of the roman catholics in the far north of england in 1569. he was the first governor of ireland to attempt, to any considerable extent, enforcement of english authority beyond the pale (comprising parts of the modern counties of dublin,…, as lord lieutenant of ireland, wellesley disappointed the anti-catholic george iv, and he was about to be removed when his brother, wellington, was appointed prime minister (january 1828). wellesley then resigned because his brother was opposed to roman catholic emancipation, although the duke was constrained to accept (1829) that…, ireland’s problem, formulating it as a basic dilemma: political violence would end only after the catholics’ claim to sit in parliament, known as catholic emancipation, had been granted; yet the protestant ascendancy, or establishment, must be preserved. he worked privately at a solution, by which…, …britain (england and scotland) and ireland under the name of the united kingdom of great britain and ireland., the irish question loomed ominously as soon as parliament assembled in 1880, for there was now an irish nationalist group of more than 60 members led by charles stewart parnell, most of them committed to irish home rule; in ireland itself, the land…, …that the french would invade ireland as a prelude to invading the british mainland led ministers to encourage the creation of an irish volunteer force some 40,000 strong. the irish protestant elite, led by henry grattan, used this force and the french threat to extract concessions from london. in 1783…, when the irish free state was created in 1922, a further advance was made, for the governor-general was chosen by the free state government and approved only by the crown. the representative of the crown in ireland had previously held the rank of viceroy, but the government…, …lloyd george finally bowed to irish demands for independence. after much negotiation and a threatened revolt in the northern counties, the compromise of december 1921 established the irish free state as a british dominion in the south while predominantly protestant northern ireland remained in the united kingdom. (the sinn féin…, in 1919 revolutionary disorder broke out in the south of ireland when the provisional government of ireland, organized by the sinn féin party, began guerrilla military operations against the british administration. through 1920 the british government attempted to…][history of ireland, learn about this topic in these articles:, assorted references, policy of, united kingdom]history of ireland | britannica[britannica's publishing partner program, learn about this topic, major treatment, anglo-irish agreement, australia, black and tan police, commonwealth, dominion status, education revival, good friday agreement, irish potato famine, irish republican army, lisbon treaty, medieval religious conversions, nationalist resistance in cork, neolithic period, orange order, orange society,, orangemen, scottish industrial revolution, viking invasions, written genealogy, burke, cornwallis island, de valera, elizabeth i, henry ii, richmond, saint leger, spenser, sussex, wellesley, wellington, act of union, effect on northern ireland, fears of french invasion, governor-general, irish free state][entertainment & pop culture, geography & travel, health & medicine, lifestyles & social issues, literature, philosophy & religion, politics, law & government, science, sports & recreation, technology, visual arts, world history, on this day in history, quizzes, podcasts, games, dictionary, biographies, summaries, top questions, week in review, infographics, demystified, lists, #wtfact, companions, image galleries, spotlight, the forum, one good fact, entertainment & pop culture, geography & travel, health & medicine, lifestyles & social issues, literature, philosophy & religion, politics, law & government, science, sports & recreation, technology, visual arts, world history, britannica classics check out these retro videos from encyclopedia britannica’s archives., demystified videos in demystified, britannica has all the answers to your burning questions., #wtfact videos in #wtfact britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find., this time in history in these videos, find out what happened this month (or any month!) in history., britannica explains in these videos, britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions., buying guide expert buying advice. from tech to household and wellness products., student portal britannica is the ultimate student resource for key school subjects like history, government, literature, and more., covid-19 portal while this global health crisis continues to evolve, it can be useful to look to past pandemics to better understand how to respond today., 100 women britannica celebrates the centennial of the nineteenth amendment, highlighting suffragists and history-making politicians., britannica beyond we’ve created a new place where questions are at the center of learning. go ahead. ask. we won’t mind., saving earth britannica presents earth’s to-do list for the 21st century. learn about the major environmental problems facing our planet and what can be done about them!, spacenext50 britannica presents spacenext50, from the race to the moon to space stewardship, we explore a wide range of subjects that feed our curiosity about space!, references, videos, images, the catholic encyclopedia - ireland, libraryireland - history of ireland, history world - history of northern ireland, major treatment in ireland: history ireland, lying to the west of britain, has always been to some extent cut off by it from direct contact with other european countries, especially those from sweden to the rhine river. readier access has been through france, spain, and portugal and even read more, in ireland: history ireland, lying to the west of britain, has always been to some extent cut off by it from direct contact with other european countries, especially those from sweden to the rhine river. readier access has been through france, spain, and portugal and even read more, anglo-irish agreement in anglo-irish agreement …that gave the government of ireland an official consultative role in the affairs of northern ireland. considered one of the most significant developments in british-irish relations since the establishment of the irish free state in 1922, the agreement provided for regular meetings between ministers in the irish and british governments… read more, in anglo-irish agreement …that gave the government of ireland an official consultative role in the affairs of northern ireland. considered one of the most significant developments in british-irish relations since the establishment of the irish free state in 1922, the agreement provided for regular meetings between ministers in the irish and british governments… read more, australia in australia: ethnic groups the ties to britain and ireland were scarcely affected by immigration from other sources until then. the complex demographic textures in australia at the beginning of the 21st century contrasted quite sharply with the homogeneity of the country during the first half of the 20th century. although some nine-tenths of… read more, in australia: ethnic groups the ties to britain and ireland were scarcely affected by immigration from other sources until then. the complex demographic textures in australia at the beginning of the 21st century contrasted quite sharply with the homogeneity of the country during the first half of the 20th century. although some nine-tenths of… read more, black and tan police in black and tan when irish republican agitation intensified after world war i, a large proportion of the irish police resigned. they were replaced by these temporary english recruits—mostly jobless former soldiers—who were paid 10 shillings a day. read more, in black and tan when irish republican agitation intensified after world war i, a large proportion of the irish police resigned. they were replaced by these temporary english recruits—mostly jobless former soldiers—who were paid 10 shillings a day. read more, commonwealth in commonwealth: membership and criteria …from the organization, as did ireland (1949), south africa (1961), and pakistan (1972), though both south africa and pakistan eventually rejoined (the former in 1994 and the latter in 1989). read more, in commonwealth: membership and criteria …from the organization, as did ireland (1949), south africa (1961), and pakistan (1972), though both south africa and pakistan eventually rejoined (the former in 1994 and the latter in 1989). read more, dominion status in dominion …the union of south africa, eire, and newfoundland. although there was no formal definition of dominion status, a pronouncement by the imperial conference of 1926 described great britain and the dominions as “autonomous communities within the british empire, equal in status, in no way subordinate one to another in any… read more in statute of westminster new zealand, south africa, ireland, and newfoundland. read more, in dominion …the union of south africa, eire, and newfoundland. although there was no formal definition of dominion status, a pronouncement by the imperial conference of 1926 described great britain and the dominions as “autonomous communities within the british empire, equal in status, in no way subordinate one to another in any… read more, in statute of westminster new zealand, south africa, ireland, and newfoundland. read more, education revival in education: the irish and english revivals …in the remote land of ireland, introduced there initially by the patron saints of ireland—patrick, bridget, and columba—who established schools at armagh, kildare, and iona. they were followed by a number of other native scholars, who also founded colleges—the most famous and greatest university being the one at clonmacnois, on… read more, in education: the irish and english revivals …in the remote land of ireland, introduced there initially by the patron saints of ireland—patrick, bridget, and columba—who established schools at armagh, kildare, and iona. they were followed by a number of other native scholars, who also founded colleges—the most famous and greatest university being the one at clonmacnois, on… read more, good friday agreement in good friday agreement …1998, and ratified in both ireland and northern ireland by popular vote on may 22 that called for devolved government in northern ireland. read more, in good friday agreement …1998, and ratified in both ireland and northern ireland by popular vote on may 22 that called for devolved government in northern ireland. read more, irish potato famine in great famine >ireland in 1845–49 when the potato crop failed in successive years. the crop failures were caused by late blight, a disease that destroys both the leaves and the edible roots, or tubers, of the potato plant. the causative agent of late blight is the read more, in great famine >ireland in 1845–49 when the potato crop failed in successive years. the crop failures were caused by late blight, a disease that destroys both the leaves and the edible roots, or tubers, of the potato plant. the causative agent of late blight is the read more, irish republican army in irish republican army …ireland, and the reunification of ireland. read more, in irish republican army …ireland, and the reunification of ireland. read more, lisbon treaty in lisbon treaty …2008, but a referendum in ireland—the only country that put the lisbon agreement to a public vote—rejected it on june 12, 2008, thus jeopardizing the entire treaty. more than a year later, on october 2, 2009, ireland held a second referendum, which passed. poland’s government also had expressed reservations, but… read more, in lisbon treaty …2008, but a referendum in ireland—the only country that put the lisbon agreement to a public vote—rejected it on june 12, 2008, thus jeopardizing the entire treaty. more than a year later, on october 2, 2009, ireland held a second referendum, which passed. poland’s government also had expressed reservations, but… read more, medieval religious conversions in history of europe: the great commission …5th century the conversion of ireland, the first christianized territory that had never been part of the roman empire, brought the particularly irish ascetic practice of self-exile to bear on missionary work. in the 6th century the irish monk columba (c. 521–597) exiled himself to the island of iona, from… read more, in history of europe: the great commission …5th century the conversion of ireland, the first christianized territory that had never been part of the roman empire, brought the particularly irish ascetic practice of self-exile to bear on missionary work. in the 6th century the irish monk columba (c. 521–597) exiled himself to the island of iona, from… read more, nationalist resistance in cork in cork …cork became a centre of irish nationalist resistance to british military and police repression, and parts of the city were burned by british forces in retaliation for an ambush on a convoy carrying members of the elite auxiliary division of the royal irish constabulary (ric). two of the city’s lord… read more, in cork …cork became a centre of irish nationalist resistance to british military and police repression, and parts of the city were burned by british forces in retaliation for an ambush on a convoy carrying members of the elite auxiliary division of the royal irish constabulary (ric). two of the city’s lord… read more, neolithic period in history of europe: the adoption of farming in britain and ireland, forest clearance as early as 4700 bce may represent the beginnings of agriculture, but there is little evidence for settlements or monuments before 4000 bce, and hunting-and-gathering economies survived in places. the construction of large communal tombs and defended enclosures from 4000 bce may… read more, in history of europe: the adoption of farming in britain and ireland, forest clearance as early as 4700 bce may represent the beginnings of agriculture, but there is little evidence for settlements or monuments before 4000 bce, and hunting-and-gathering economies survived in places. the construction of large communal tombs and defended enclosures from 4000 bce may… read more, orange order in orange order …orange society, byname orangemen, an irish protestant and political society, named for the protestant william of orange, who, as king william iii of great britain, had defeated the roman catholic king james ii. read more, in orange order …orange society, byname orangemen, an irish protestant and political society, named for the protestant william of orange, who, as king william iii of great britain, had defeated the roman catholic king james ii. read more, scottish industrial revolution in scotland: the industrial revolution hundreds of thousands of irish emigrants went to scotland in the 19th century, beginning prior to but increasing in number during the irish potato famine of 1845–49. in some country regions there was a population decrease as people moved to the towns, to england, or overseas. part of the… read more, in scotland: the industrial revolution hundreds of thousands of irish emigrants went to scotland in the 19th century, beginning prior to but increasing in number during the irish potato famine of 1845–49. in some country regions there was a population decrease as people moved to the towns, to england, or overseas. part of the… read more, viking invasions in viking: the western seas, vinland, and ireland scandinavian invasions of ireland are recorded from 795, when rechru, an island not identified, was ravaged. thenceforth fighting was incessant, and, although the natives often more than held their own, scandinavian kingdoms arose at dublin, limerick, and waterford. the kings of dublin for a time felt strong enough… read more, in viking: the western seas, vinland, and ireland scandinavian invasions of ireland are recorded from 795, when rechru, an island not identified, was ravaged. thenceforth fighting was incessant, and, although the natives often more than held their own, scandinavian kingdoms arose at dublin, limerick, and waterford. the kings of dublin for a time felt strong enough… read more, written genealogy in genealogy: early written records …conversion of the peoples of ireland, wales, and england to christianity, the recording of their regal traditions began. it was natural for the first chroniclers, who were mostly monks, to write down the oral pedigrees of the kings in whose realms they lived. students of the irish regal pedigrees are… read more, in genealogy: early written records …conversion of the peoples of ireland, wales, and england to christianity, the recording of their regal traditions began. it was natural for the first chroniclers, who were mostly monks, to write down the oral pedigrees of the kings in whose realms they lived. students of the irish regal pedigrees are… read more, burke in edmund burke: political life ireland was a special problem in imperial regulation. it was in strict political dependency on england and internally subject to the ascendancy of an anglo-irish protestant minority that owned the bulk of the agricultural land. roman catholics were excluded by a penal code from political… read more, in edmund burke: political life ireland was a special problem in imperial regulation. it was in strict political dependency on england and internally subject to the ascendancy of an anglo-irish protestant minority that owned the bulk of the agricultural land. roman catholics were excluded by a penal code from political… read more, cornwallis island in charles cornwallis, 1st marquess and 2nd earl cornwallis as viceroy of ireland (1798–1801), cornwallis won the confidence of both militant protestants (orangemen) and roman catholics. after suppressing a serious irish rebellion in 1798 and defeating a french invasion force on september 9 of that year, he wisely insisted that only the revolutionary leaders be punished. as… read more, in charles cornwallis, 1st marquess and 2nd earl cornwallis as viceroy of ireland (1798–1801), cornwallis won the confidence of both militant protestants (orangemen) and roman catholics. after suppressing a serious irish rebellion in 1798 and defeating a french invasion force on september 9 of that year, he wisely insisted that only the revolutionary leaders be punished. as… read more, de valera in eamon de valera: rise to power …national self-sufficiency in an irish-speaking ireland while building up industries behind protective tariffs. in a new constitution ratified by referendum in 1937, the irish free state became ireland (in irish, éire), a sovereign, independent democracy tenuously linked with the british commonwealth (under the external relations act of 1936) only for… read more, in eamon de valera: rise to power …national self-sufficiency in an irish-speaking ireland while building up industries behind protective tariffs. in a new constitution ratified by referendum in 1937, the irish free state became ireland (in irish, éire), a sovereign, independent democracy tenuously linked with the british commonwealth (under the external relations act of 1936) only for… read more, elizabeth i in elizabeth i: the queen’s image essex returned from ireland against the queen’s orders, insulted her in her presence, and then made a desperate, foolhardy attempt to raise an insurrection. he was tried for treason and executed on february 25, 1601. read more, in elizabeth i: the queen’s image essex returned from ireland against the queen’s orders, insulted her in her presence, and then made a desperate, foolhardy attempt to raise an insurrection. he was tried for treason and executed on february 25, 1601. read more, henry ii in angevin empire in 1171 he annexed ireland and obtained direct control of the eastern part of the island and nominal control of the remainder. finally, from 1174 to 1189, william i the lion, king of scotland, captured in a skirmish in 1174, was obliged to accept henry as his overlord. read more, in angevin empire in 1171 he annexed ireland and obtained direct control of the eastern part of the island and nominal control of the remainder. finally, from 1174 to 1189, william i the lion, king of scotland, captured in a skirmish in 1174, was obliged to accept henry as his overlord. read more, richmond in charles lennox, 3rd duke of richmond …a policy of concession in ireland, with reference to which he originated the phrase “a union of hearts,” which long afterward became famous when his use of it had been forgotten. in 1780 richmond embodied in a bill his proposals for parliamentary reform, which included manhood suffrage, annual parliaments, and… read more, in charles lennox, 3rd duke of richmond …a policy of concession in ireland, with reference to which he originated the phrase “a union of hearts,” which long afterward became famous when his use of it had been forgotten. in 1780 richmond embodied in a bill his proposals for parliamentary reform, which included manhood suffrage, annual parliaments, and… read more, saint leger in sir anthony saint leger ), english lord deputy of ireland from 1540 to 1548, 1550 to 1551, and 1553 to 1556. considered by many historians to be the most able 16th-century english viceroy of ireland, he maintained peace in that country by upholding the feudal privileges of the powerful native chieftains. read more, in sir anthony saint leger ), english lord deputy of ireland from 1540 to 1548, 1550 to 1551, and 1553 to 1556. considered by many historians to be the most able 16th-century english viceroy of ireland, he maintained peace in that country by upholding the feudal privileges of the powerful native chieftains. read more, spenser in edmund spenser: early works …the new lord deputy of ireland, arthur lord grey, who was a friend of the sidney family. read more, in edmund spenser: early works …the new lord deputy of ireland, arthur lord grey, who was a friend of the sidney family. read more, sussex in thomas radcliffe, 3rd earl of sussex …london), english lord lieutenant of ireland who suppressed a rebellion of the roman catholics in the far north of england in 1569. he was the first governor of ireland to attempt, to any considerable extent, enforcement of english authority beyond the pale (comprising parts of the modern counties of dublin,… read more, in thomas radcliffe, 3rd earl of sussex …london), english lord lieutenant of ireland who suppressed a rebellion of the roman catholics in the far north of england in 1569. he was the first governor of ireland to attempt, to any considerable extent, enforcement of english authority beyond the pale (comprising parts of the modern counties of dublin,… read more, wellesley in richard colley wellesley, marquess wellesley as lord lieutenant of ireland, wellesley disappointed the anti-catholic george iv, and he was about to be removed when his brother, wellington, was appointed prime minister (january 1828). wellesley then resigned because his brother was opposed to roman catholic emancipation, although the duke was constrained to accept (1829) that… read more, in richard colley wellesley, marquess wellesley as lord lieutenant of ireland, wellesley disappointed the anti-catholic george iv, and he was about to be removed when his brother, wellington, was appointed prime minister (january 1828). wellesley then resigned because his brother was opposed to roman catholic emancipation, although the duke was constrained to accept (1829) that… read more, wellington in arthur wellesley, 1st duke of wellington: role in the cabinet of arthur wellesley, 1st duke of wellington ireland’s problem, formulating it as a basic dilemma: political violence would end only after the catholics’ claim to sit in parliament, known as catholic emancipation, had been granted; yet the protestant ascendancy, or establishment, must be preserved. he worked privately at a solution, by which… read more, in arthur wellesley, 1st duke of wellington: role in the cabinet of arthur wellesley, 1st duke of wellington ireland’s problem, formulating it as a basic dilemma: political violence would end only after the catholics’ claim to sit in parliament, known as catholic emancipation, had been granted; yet the protestant ascendancy, or establishment, must be preserved. he worked privately at a solution, by which… read more, act of union in act of union …britain (england and scotland) and ireland under the name of the united kingdom of great britain and ireland. read more, in act of union …britain (england and scotland) and ireland under the name of the united kingdom of great britain and ireland. read more, effect on northern ireland in united kingdom: the irish question the irish question loomed ominously as soon as parliament assembled in 1880, for there was now an irish nationalist group of more than 60 members led by charles stewart parnell, most of them committed to irish home rule; in ireland itself, the land… read more, in united kingdom: the irish question the irish question loomed ominously as soon as parliament assembled in 1880, for there was now an irish nationalist group of more than 60 members led by charles stewart parnell, most of them committed to irish home rule; in ireland itself, the land… read more, fears of french invasion in united kingdom: domestic responses to the american revolution …that the french would invade ireland as a prelude to invading the british mainland led ministers to encourage the creation of an irish volunteer force some 40,000 strong. the irish protestant elite, led by henry grattan, used this force and the french threat to extract concessions from london. in 1783… read more, in united kingdom: domestic responses to the american revolution …that the french would invade ireland as a prelude to invading the british mainland led ministers to encourage the creation of an irish volunteer force some 40,000 strong. the irish protestant elite, led by henry grattan, used this force and the french threat to extract concessions from london. in 1783… read more, governor-general in governor-general when the irish free state was created in 1922, a further advance was made, for the governor-general was chosen by the free state government and approved only by the crown. the representative of the crown in ireland had previously held the rank of viceroy, but the government… read more, in governor-general when the irish free state was created in 1922, a further advance was made, for the governor-general was chosen by the free state government and approved only by the crown. the representative of the crown in ireland had previously held the rank of viceroy, but the government… read more, irish free state in 20th-century international relations: the reorganization of the middle east …lloyd george finally bowed to irish demands for independence. after much negotiation and a threatened revolt in the northern counties, the compromise of december 1921 established the irish free state as a british dominion in the south while predominantly protestant northern ireland remained in the united kingdom. (the sinn féin… read more in united kingdom: ireland and the return of the conservatives in 1919 revolutionary disorder broke out in the south of ireland when the provisional government of ireland, organized by the sinn féin party, began guerrilla military operations against the british administration. through 1920 the british government attempted to… read more, in 20th-century international relations: the reorganization of the middle east …lloyd george finally bowed to irish demands for independence. after much negotiation and a threatened revolt in the northern counties, the compromise of december 1921 established the irish free state as a british dominion in the south while predominantly protestant northern ireland remained in the united kingdom. (the sinn féin… read more, in united kingdom: ireland and the return of the conservatives in 1919 revolutionary disorder broke out in the south of ireland when the provisional government of ireland, organized by the sinn féin party, began guerrilla military operations against the british administration. through 1920 the british government attempted to… read more]