[united kingdom, , schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , deutschland, , canada, english, april 19, 2021, 13 min read, our primary aim is to make sure that you can enjoy the safest gaming experience without any break in consistency. if we believe that a casino is very much to the highest standard, we’ll strike up a partnership. however, our partnership in no way plays a role in constructing or deciding our opinions., rating, 5 / 5, casino rating, review and rating of scores is carried out according to many criteria. to evaluate online casinos, their reliability and safety, license, convenience, popularity in a particular country, the payment methods offered and the variety of game developers are checked., when it comes to engaging with a casino site, you want to know you are gonna get good value for money. casino cruise has become one of the most popular names in the uk online casino gaming industry. is it, though, worth its reputation?, formed in 2014, casino cruise uk works across platforms, with both instant play and mobile options available. they’ve become quite popular thanks to their wide array of games available, as well as their easy to use online system. support is quick, withdrawals and deposits are easy and the whole process is just relatively simple., while it’s quite limited in where the site can be used in terms of major european nations, it’s well received across the british gaming scene. the fact they are uk gambling commission licensed says a lot in the current climate., typically, as a player you feel pretty good using casino cruise. it’s fast, it loads nice and easy and the layout is simple to use. the best games are easily found, and the overall quality of games mixes well with the extensive quantity on offer., nobody wants a bad customer service experience, and with casino cruise the quality is generally very high. the quality of the customer support is backed up by fast live chat responses, available from 7am until 11pm uk time, meaning it’s easy to get quick support., they offer all manner of payment systems, with everything from ecopayz and maestro to mastercard, visa, ticket premium, boku and much more. processing is fast, too, with most transactions taking around 2-5 days: be warned, though, that cheques are not accepted at present., of course, safety matters as well. you will be happy to know that overall the safety standards are very high, with various steps taken to protect both your account and your privacy. if you need help with your gambling, casino cruise offers excellent support., it’s the 21st century, so you can play cruise on a mobile device. you can make use of the app, which is available on all platforms. you’ll get access to 500+ games, and it’s available on any mobile device. website users will feel immediately a home thanks to the familiar setup to the website., at the moment, ambitious gamers can make the most of their various online casino games including the likes of netent, microgaming, nyx interactive, evolution gaming and also play’n go, ensuring you can pick from major industry gaming providers., with over 50+ live tables to pick from, too, you can feel more than at home with their options here. you can enjoy major games from the live catalogue, such as immersive roulette. this makes it easy for you to pick your perfect live game., with over 500 games to pick from as well as live casino betting, you can find all of the old classic gaming styles here. you’ll often find options such as table games, video slots experiences, classic slots games, jackpot games and various forms of video poker., if you are looking for a good time, then you will find classic games such as jungle spirit, butterfly staxx and book of dead – all some of the most popular casino games on the market. video poker favourites including jacks or better & all-american are here, too., so, overall, it would be more than fair to say that casino cruise is a gaming experience worth your time. it’s fun, it’s engaging and its hugely satisfying for all of the right reasons. be sure to try it out: there’s a reason it’s so highly rated., chief editor, emily campbell (professional name) is our go-to person, and she has served as our chief editor since 2018. educated at newcastle university, emily has worked in the marketing industry across the uk, helping various companies to gain traction and to build up quality, value-driven information aimed at readers., united kingdom, , schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , deutschland, , canada, english, you are in safe hands, our recommended casinos have been certified by, sign up for +350 free spins!, by providing us with your email, you confirm your desire to be subscribed to the casinonow uk newsletter. you must be over the age of 18 to subscribe to our newsletter. please confirm this, and that you’ve read all associated rules, cookie terms, and that you have accepted our privacy policy., casino-now.co.uk website is certified by, casinonow uk is a free casino portal set up to provide gamers with all the information they need to play with confidence and control. our main objective is to help you pick the right casino sites, and to give you quick information that you can break down with ease. we look to save you time, money, and stress by giving you information, reviews, and advice about major casinos, games, payment methods, and software developers. our goal is simple: to make sure you can play games with confidence that the service is exactly as was described., copyright © 2017-2020 casino-now.co.uk all rights reserved][casino cruise review: worth your money?, what’s casino cruise about, cruise’s user experience, is customer support good enough?, payments methods with casino cruise, is casino cruise safe to use?, casino cruise on mobile, software of casino cruise, cruise offer live dealers, casino cruise games available, conclusion, about the author]cruise online casino review - £200 bonus & 200 spins[casino cruise, website, established, owner, bonus, casino-now.co.uk, casino-now.co.uk][about us, united kingdom schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich deutschland canada english, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, deutschland, canada english, casinos, bonusse, slots, games, payment methods, software, casinonow, , casino reviews, , casino cruise, cruise’s user experience, is customer support good enough?, payments methods with casino cruise, is casino cruise safe to use?, casino cruise on mobile, software of casino cruise, cruise offer live dealers, casino cruise games available, conclusion, , , , , , , find your best payforit casinoland isoftbet wms sms grand ivy casino, payforit, casinoland, isoftbet, wms, sms, grand ivy casino, casino reviews casinoland grand ivy casino playfrank casino all british casino leovegas casino, casinoland, grand ivy casino, playfrank casino, all british casino, leovegas casino, bonuses welcome bonus free money free spins no deposit, welcome bonus, free money, free spins, no deposit, casino games online slots roulette live casino, online slots, roulette, live casino, mobile casino, payment methods payforit sms boku paysafe paypal neteller bitcoin, payforit, sms, boku, paysafe, paypal, neteller, bitcoin, guides real money casino new casinos gambling regulation uk gambling regulation, real money casino, new casinos, gambling regulation, uk gambling regulation, united kingdom schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich deutschland canada english, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, deutschland, canada english, about us emily campbell, emily campbell, casino review сasinoland the grand ivy casino playfrank casino come on casino spinit casino, сasinoland, the grand ivy casino, playfrank casino, come on casino, spinit casino, to learn real money casinos new casinos gambling regulation uk gambling regulation mobile casino, real money casinos, new casinos, gambling regulation, uk gambling regulation, mobile casino, games online slots roulette online, online slots, roulette online]