[canada, english, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , deutschland, , united kingdom, , april 19, 2021, 16 min read, our priority in casinonow canada is to guarantee locals an excellent experience playing online casinos. our tests & reviews are always unbiased. sometimes an online casino is 100% convincing and we decide to partner with it. however, this does not affect the objectivity of our assessment., casino rating, 4.7 / 5, casino rating, review and rating of scores is carried out according to many criteria. to evaluate online casinos, their reliability and safety, license, convenience, popularity in a particular country, the payment methods offered and the variety of game developers are checked., casino cruise is a relatively new online casino – but still, it manages to do things right unlike many other casinos. and why should this be the case? well, for one, there are several hundreds of games made by top developers. add to this a great mobile gaming platform and big bonuses, and you have yourself a sure entry on the list of top online casinos. read our review to find out more., ca, c$1000 + 200 fs, trust and fairness, 4.8 / 5, games, 4.8 / 5, bonus, 4.7 / 5, customer service, 4.7 / 5, available games, roulette, slots, table games, live dealer, payout rate, 97%, payout time, 2-3 days, min/max deposit, , payment methods(8), if you want to read an in-depth casino cruise review, then you have come to the right place. casino cruise is a new online casino where the players can get to play some outstanding games made by developers like play n go, netent, microgaming, and several others. there are several banking options to choose from, as well as a hefty welcome bonus and other casino cruise offers., licensed by the malta gaming authority as well as the united kingdom gambling commission and owned and operated by genesis global ltd., casino cruise has all the potential in the world to become one of the top online casinos on the internet – if this is not already the case. and, as you know, the malta gaming authority and the ukgc are the biggest regulatory authorities in the igaming industry. so, be sure to relax as you read all about the strongest sides and potential disadvantages that this casino has., casino cruise has its own advantages but it also has a few disadvantages. here the players will be able to learn about the strongest and weakest parts about casino cruise., advantages, disadvantages, all in all, casino cruise has a lot more advantages than disadvantages – and the advantages are also of higher importance and impact than the disadvantages. but in any case, you should visit and use casino cruise’s services yourself to learn of its strong and weaker sides., the bonus section on the casino cruise platform is one of the most exciting parts about it. the new players will get to reel in especially big rewards for their first deposit. some of the bonuses that the players can expect to get on the casino cruise site are:, the bonus section at casino cruise is well populated with different bonuses and promotions, but the fact remains that the most important and biggest one of the bonuses is the welcome bonus package for the new players. we advise you to read the terms and conditions to learn more about how to claim all of these bonuses to play the available casino games as well as to learn the wagering requirements set for you to be able to withdraw the winnings that you make using the bonuses at the online casino., there’s no vip loyalty program per se at casino cruise. some of the other top online casinos have implemented a well-developed vip reward platform – with levels to reach and individual prizes to claim. however, casino cruise has decided to simplify things and instead offer cash for your bets. it’s simple and frankly, we wouldn’t have it any other way., so, the rule for getting cash for points is that you will get a $1 for every 100 points that you get gambling on some of the games available at casino cruise. you won’t get a point for every 10 dollars that you wager, but for every $20. in time, these rewards will add up – but make no mistake that you will need to wager a lot of money in order to get the big prizes from the quasi loyalty program available at casino cruise., casino cruise is an online casino that’s owned by genesis global limited with registration number (c65325). the company’s address is 28, gb buildings, level 3, watar street, ta’ xbiex, xbx 1301, malta. it’s a company regulated by mga – with a license number mga/b2c/314/2015. and in case you weren’t aware, this is a company with a long-standing reputation in the world of igaming. it holds several popular online casinos. and there’s no denying that genesis global limited is a completely legitimate igaming operator., to top things off, cruise casino is licensed by the malta gaming authority and the united kingdom gambling commission. these are arguably the two highest authorities in the entire igaming industry and the vast majority of online casinos that hold a license issued by any of these two authorities are completely legit., casino cruise uses ssl 128bit encryption. this will make all traffic between the player’s device and the online casino completely encrypted, safe from prying eyes. you won’t lose your personal nor financial data when gambling there, and nobody would know that you’re even gambling at casino cruise. all this information shows that casino cruise is completely safe as secure, as an online casino can be, and that there’s no room for any worries regarding the players’ safety and security on the platform., chances are that you won’t even need to read this section in order to be able to find your way at casino cruise even if you’re a first-time visitor. all you need to do to start playing is follow the few simple steps that we have outlined for you right below:, that’s really all there is to it. you can go through the entire registration process very quickly, in a matter of minutes. and then you can start playing some or all of the games available at casino cruise. and boy, you’re in for a treat., there is no dedicated casino app at casino cruise. despair not though, because you can still get a premium mobile gaming experience at casino cruise by virtue of html5 support. this means that you can enjoy playing the available games at casino cruise on your mobile device by just visiting the casino’s site. cruise casino follows the tendency of modern online casinos to not feature a mobile gaming app as superfluous., so, you can still get an outstanding gaming experience on the casino cruise mobile platform by just visiting the website. of course, there will be certain games that won’t “fit” on some of the older mobile devices. but if you own a more modern device of some of the world’s most popular smartphone brands, then you will have no problem whatsoever playing all of the new and classic slots and table games alike on your mobile device., for the vast majority of players, the gaming section is the most important one when reading casino reviews. luckily, there are thousands of different games that casino cruise offers to the players to enjoy. so, you can expect to play:, the game selection at casino cruise is pretty solid. and best of all, new games are being introduced every so often by top tier developers such as net entertainment, microgaming, and many others., there are thousands of different slot games made by top tier developers and indie developers alike. there are more than 750 different games at casino cruise. no casino is ever complete without the roulette-blackjack combination. oasis poker is yet another option that the player can pick. the mega fortune progressive slot is always available if you wish to aim for the huge prizes. the cruise casino site is not unlike a giant cruise ship that’s chock full of games and fun areas to play and have fun with. video slots, table games, video poker and many other casino games are available for the players to enjoy here., if you’re a fan of live casino action, then you’ve come to the right place. cruise casino has some of the best live games available on the internet. and if you’ve enjoyed playing live dealer games, then you know who’s the top dog in this field. it’s developer evolution gaming, the creator of some of the most fantastic, most fun live dealer games to date. any self-respecting casino that wishes to build a solid live gaming section has to implement software developed by this company – its quality is unparalleled., so, long story short, aside from the regular gambling section and the regular games, you will be able to play live dealer games such as, and several other popular casino games. you owe it to yourself to visit this section if you enjoy live dealer games., at casino cruise, you can look forward to using several payment methods – including 9 deposit methods and 8 withdrawal methods. here are some of the most frequently used payment options in thi s casino:, we shouldn’t neglect the importance of customer service. it’s a very important piece of the puzzle that makes an online casino stand out – like casino cruise. the reason why we say this is that cruise casino has the holy grail of customer service:, casino cruise takes its job seriously. one of the biggest responsibilities that online casinos have is that towards their players – and casino cruise is committed to responsible gambling. there is an entire page dedicated to this section on the site. there you will read lots of useful information that will serve you as advice to know when to stop. there are several helpful questions that you can answer in a minute that will tell you whether you might be having a problem with gambling., you can use one of the available measures to prevent problem gambling on the site – such as the self-exclusion list, the shutting down your account button, the deposit and wager limits, as well as the session limits. all of these things help enforce responsible gambling at casino cruise., if you want to take a step further, then you can visit one of the available websites of professional organizations. there are several options available, such as www.gamcare.org.uk, www.gamblersanonymous.org.uk, and www.gamblingtherapy.org. also, it’s important to note that underage gambling is an offense, and as such, it’s forbidden at casino cruise., casino cruise is a modern online casino. it takes the theme of a luxurious cruise ship – and you will get to “travel” all around the world to many exotic locations with it. the jackpot games and the other gaming options available will help you get rich as you travel. you can use the many payment options to make deposits and withdrawals easily. and don’t forget to use the generous welcome bonus for the best experience, making sure to reach the wagering requirement before you withdraw the money that you will win with the help of this bonus., so, all in all, the casino user experience is at an outstanding level, as the vast majority of players would agree. the fact that there are more than a thousand casino games at casino cruise means that you have your work cut out in front of you if you wish to play them all. and the entire platform is designed in a friendly, inviting way, with beautiful visuals and animations. it really is heaven for online gamblers from all around the world., the atmosphere at casino cruise is so friendly and forthcoming. i really felt like i was traveling on a cruise ship! – john, ottawa, the video poker section is one of the most densely populated yet – at least when compared to what some other top casinos have on offer. the live gaming section needs no mention here, by now we have drilled down how good this section really is in one of the previous paragraphs of this article., and what you can expect to find here is many games created by independent developers such as red dog, for example. it’s far too frequently the case that indie developers, despite having the talent, don’t get a proper platform to launch their products on. you can find many of them at casino cruise, though, much to the delight of the fans from all around the world., and there you have it, we have come to the conclusion of our casino review for casino cruise. we conclude that this is indeed a top-tier online casino where most players would have a blast. and not only that, but it’s also a very generous casino in that the casino cruise bonus can be highly lucrative, not to mention the hundreds of free spins that you can get for starburst by netent. also, there are several popular banking options at play here and you can make quick deposits and withdrawals with their help., and with a low minimum deposit of $10, this casino is accessible to almost everyone. the site is likely to become a gambling mecca of sorts for players that enjoy online gambling in the near future. for more information, we suggest that you read the terms and conditions. otherwise, be sure to visit casino cruise and enjoy its one-of-a-kind, fantastic offer., you can get up to $200 for your first deposit and additional 200 free spins for the slot game – starburst by netent. the player also has the rights reserved to claim additional three deposit bonuses, all amounting to a nice lump sum of $1000 of free betting money., unfortunately, players from the united states are currently not accepted at casino cruise. there are also several other restricted countries, as well. you can find the excluded countries list very easily on the casino cruise site., the minimum deposit rate varies depending on the particular payment method that you will use. but, in most cases, the minimum deposit is set at the $10 mark., the biggest sum of money that you can withdraw from casino cruise is $22,000 per month., yes, regardless if you have used the welcome casino cruise bonus, you can use other bonuses as well, such as cashback and tournament ladder bonuses. again, read the terms and conditions for more information on how to use them., chief editor, james taylor is the chief editor of casinonow canada portal. this is the professional name of our bilingual go-to guy who adds value to all our work. he has been working as editor-in-chief at casionnow canada since 2018. previously, he studied at the university of quebec in montreal and worked in market research companies., canada, english, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , deutschland, , united kingdom, , you are in safe hands, our recommended casinos have been certified by, sign up for +350 free spins!, by entering your e-mail here, you confirm your subscription to our newsletter. please be aware that all online players must be of legal age (18+). please confirm that you have read the t&cs and cookies policies, and that you accept the privacy terms., casino-now-canada.com website is certified by, casinonow’s mission is to provide content that aims to help all online casino players in canada. we provide reviews and comparisons between different online casinos according to unique rating criteria. as a result our team deal with different themes such as casino bonuses, payment methods, casino games, software companies and much more. we are independent experts who make useful and up-to-date guides for online players from canada., address 439 university avenue, toronto, ontario, m5g 1y8, phone no. +1 (877) 705-0707, copyright © 2017-2020 casino-now-canada.com all rights reserved][casino cruise review 2021, general information of online casino, site preview, brief overview, advantages and disadvantages, bonus offers – a generous welcome package, vip ladder promotion, security & fairness, how to start in casino cruise, mobile casino, gaming & platforms, games variety, top 5 popular slots, top 5 popular table games, live dealers games, top 5 casino software, deposits and withdrawals options, customer service – live chat, phone and email support, responsible gaming, casino user experience, player’s comment, other products of casino, conclusion, faq section, how big of a bonus can i get for my first deposit?, are players from the united states accepted?, what’s the minimum deposit that i can make at casino cruise?, what’s the biggest sum of money that i can withdraw in a single month?, is there another casino cruise bonus that i can claim aside from the deposit match bonuses?, über den autor]casino cruise review 2021 [sign up bonus c$1000 + 200 fs][casino cruise, but still, it manages to do things right unlike many other casinos, most exciting parts about it, 100% match up to $200, 0% match up to $200, wcruise2, wcruise3 and wcruise4, $62,000, 10% cashback bonus every week, up to $200, $100 bonus for the live casino, offer cash for your bets, legitimate igaming operator., is completely safe, no problem whatsoever, holy grail of customer service:, live chat: , email support:, phone support:, the casino user experience is at an outstanding level, many games created by independent developers such as, this casino is accessible to almost everyone, casino-now-canada.com , address, phone no., casino-now-canada.com][about us, canada english schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich deutschland united kingdom, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, deutschland, united kingdom, casinos, bonuses, slots, games, deposits, software, casinonow, , casino reviews, , casino cruise, thousands of available games that the players can play – made by top tier developers, big welcome deposit bonus for new players in the form of free betting money, dozens of live games to enjoy in the live casino section, , , , , , , , , advantages and disadvantages, bonus offers – a generous welcome package, vip ladder promotion, security & fairness, how to start in casino cruise, mobile casino, gaming & platforms, deposits and withdrawals options, customer service – live chat, phone and email support, responsible gaming, casino user experience, other products of casino, conclusion, faq section, thousands of available games that the players can play – made by top tier developers,, big welcome deposit bonus for new players in the form of free betting money,, dozens of live games to enjoy in the live casino section,, customer service is always on point and available 24/7., thousands of available games that the players can play – made by top tier developers,, big welcome deposit bonus for new players in the form of free betting money,, dozens of live games to enjoy in the live casino section,, customer service is always on point and available 24/7., the welcome bonus package. for your first time when you will make a deposit on the site, you will be rewarded with a 100% match up to $200. also, you will get 200 free spins on the popular netent slot game starburst. the second deposit bonus will get you a 0% match up to $200 – use the promo code wcruise2 to claim it. the third and fourth deposit bonuses are a 25% match up to $200, with the promo code wcruise3 and wcruise4, respectively. so, the new players will be rewarded with up to $1,000 for their first four deposits, as well as 200 free spins for the netent slot starburst., there are weekly tournaments that you can compete in against other players. the weekly prizes that the players will get by competing in these tournaments amount to no less than $62,000. the more you play, the bigger the rewards that you’re likely to get., if you use the live casino at casino cruise, then you will be rewarded with a 10% cashback bonus every week, up to $200., you will get a $100 bonus for the live casino section at casino cruise., you will get points for the wagers that you make at casino cruise. these points can be converted into cash later on., visit the casino cruise official site., hit the yellow “sign up” button that you can find in the top right corner of the screen., a new window will open where you will get to write your email, username, and password., follow through on all of the steps of the registration process, making sure to write all the info that the casino requires of you., log into your account., go and check out the cashier’s page if you wish to make a deposit. pick one of the payment options and deposit some money., check out the awesome selection of games at casino cruise and pick one that you would like to play., table games such as roulette, baccarat, and blackjack,, video slots,, video poker games such as: jacks or better or deuces wild, caribbean stud poker and regular stud poker, and joker poker,, live games,, and others., blackjack,, roulette,, baccarat,, live chat: if you have simple, easy questions – or even hard questions, at that – you can easily contact customer service at casino cruise by using the live chat option. you will get in touch with an agent immediately and you can ask away. live chat remains one of the most popular options to contact customer support in any given online casino – and so too in casino cruise., email support:this is an oft-overlooked option to contact customer support. you can write a quick email at support@casinocruise.com and the customer support staff will get back to you promptly. one thing to remember is that you need to be as specific as possible regarding your problem or question, so the agents will have an easier time giving you the right answer., phone support: lastly, you can contact the support agents via phone. dial the following phone number if you wish to do this: 0800-171-0881., find your best boku microgaming payforit paysafecard visa real money casinos, boku, microgaming, payforit, paysafecard, visa, real money casinos, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, casino games online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots roulette blackjack live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots, video slots, classic slots, 3d slots, roulette, blackjack, live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, live 3 сard poker, live blackjack, live roulette, live holdem, live baccarat, deposits boku payforit paysafecard visa ukash zimpler neteller entropay, boku, payforit, paysafecard, visa, ukash, zimpler, neteller, entropay, mobile casinos android casino iphone casino ipad casino, android casino, iphone casino, ipad casino, guides gambling regulation territories saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia alberta ontario quebec atlantic provinces, gambling regulation, territories, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, alberta, ontario, quebec, atlantic provinces, canada english schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich deutschland united kingdom, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, deutschland, united kingdom, about us james taylor privacy policy, james taylor, privacy policy, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, gambling regulation saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, best of real money casinos best payout new casino, real money casinos, best payout, new casino]