[#otd 5/6/1971 president nixon, secretary of agriculture clifford hardin, and dr. norman borlaug viewed agricultural displays, including samples of “miracle wheat,” on the white house south lawn. dr. borlaug received the nobel prize in 1970 for developing high-yield, disease-resistant wheat varieties. his work, combined with modern farming methods, is widely credited as saving hundreds of millions of lives by increasing food security in countries around the globe. (image: whpo-6224-20a), short url, martha mitchell, wife of former u.s. attorney general and watergate figure john mitchell, is back in the public consciousness right now because of the upcoming 50th anniversary of the watergate break-in and the new streaming series “gaslit.”, the nixon presidential library and museum recently received a donation of 169 photographs of the mitchells collected by newsday journalist nick thimmesch. here are just a few of the images. contact our archive staff at nixonreference@nara.gov for more information., short url, #nixon50 #otd 5/5/1972 president nixon with dr. jerome jaffe and family. dr. jaffe served as special consultant to the president for narcotics and dangerous drugs and as director of the special action office for drug abuse prevention (saodap), during the years 1971-73. his donated papers are located at the nixon library. (image: whpo-9025-05), watch his fascinating oral history on our youtube channel: https://youtu.be/kdljutnljw0, short url, #nixon50 #otd 5/4/1972 president nixon delivered the eulogy at the funeral of j. edgar hoover, first director of the fbi, held at the national presbyterian church in washington, dc. (image: whpo-9013-03), short url, #nixon50 #otd 5/3/1972 president met with richard g. kleindienst, acting u.s. attorney general, louis patrick gray iii, assistant attorney general and acting director of the fbi. white house chief of staff h. r. “bob” haldeman, and assistant to the president john ehrlichman. gray was nominated by the president as director but failed to be confirmed by the senate after becoming embroiled in the watergate scandal. (image: whpo-9007-04a), short url, #nixon50 #otd 5/2/1972 president nixon met with a delegation from the rebild national park society of denmark. the delegation presented to the president a gold medallion commemorating the 60th anniversary of the society. according to the society’s website, it is the first danish-american friendship organization. each year, it hosts the largest 4th of july celebration outside of the united states. (image: whpo-8995-13a), short url, technical difficulties appear to have prevented this from posting yesterday. still, it’s never too late to enjoy these photos of tricia nixon cox, pasha the yorkshire terrier, and poster child michael hoerner., #nixon50 5/1/1972 tricia nixon cox, 1972 hearing poster child michael hoerner, and nixon family yorkshire terrier pasha in the white house red room. michael, age 3, of miamisburg, ohio, was reportedly very shy in front of the photographers. tricia had little pasha, who was not generally allowed in the red room, brought in to help put michael at ease. (images: whpo-8989-07 and 09), short url, #nixon50 #otd 4/30/1972 president nixon and first lady pat nixon were honored guests at a barbecue buffet dinner hosted by secretary of the treasury john connally and mrs. connally at their picosa ranch in floresville, texas. (image: whpo-8979-16a), short url, #nixon50 #otd 4/29/1972 nixon administration women appointees posed for this group photograph outside the white house. left to right (first row): ethel bent walsh, brigadier general jeanne m. holm, rose mary woods, virginia knauer, helen delich bentley, jayne baker spain, evelyn eppley, barbara h. franklin; (second row): sallyanne payton, elizabeth hanford (later secretary of labor dole and u.s. senator dole), georgiana sheldon, virginia allan, carol khosrovi, paula tennant, brereton sturtevant, gloria toote. (image: whpo-8967-05), short url, #nixon50 #otd 4/28/1972 tricia nixon cox was interviewed by barbara walters of nbc’s “today show” and “not for women only” in the dining room at monticello, the home of thomas jefferson. mrs. cox toured historic homes in the area during her garden week visit. (image: whpo-8971-20), short url, , campus scene during shootings at kent state university, records of u.s. attorneys, national archives at chicago, nara id 2723186., ..., it’s national park week!, gerald ford had a long history with the national parks. in 1936, at the age of 23, he worked as a seasonal park ranger at..., happy birthday to alan bean, the fourth person to walk on the moon, seen here using a brunton compass to make strike and dip..., hanukkah begins tonight., yisrael yeshayahu, speaker of the knesset, presented a hanukkah menorah to president ford on november 11, 1975, when a..., top, for the official source of information about the us national archives, please visit our homepage at www.archives.gov.][richard nixon presidential library and museum, about, pages, connect with us, , happy birthday!]richard nixon presidential library and museum[effector theme][archive, rss, ask us, submit a comment!, 2 days ago, 4, permalink, 3 days ago, permalink, 3 days ago, 1, permalink, 4 days ago, 2, permalink, 5 days ago, 1, permalink, 6 days ago, 3, permalink, 6 days ago, 3, permalink, 1 week ago, 4, permalink, 1 week ago, 3, permalink, 1 week ago, 1, permalink, policies, @nixonlibrary on twitter, facebook profile, richardnixonlibrary on youtube, usnationalarchives on flickr, rnlibrary on pinterest, nixonlibrary on instagram, post via usnatarchives campus scene during shootings at kent state university, records of u.s. attorneys, national archives at chicago, nara id 2723186. ... post via usnatarchives, photoset via fordlibrarymuseum it’s national park week! gerald ford had a long history with the national parks. in 1936, at the age of 23, he worked as a seasonal park ranger at... photoset via fordlibrarymuseum, photo via riversidearchives happy birthday! happy birthday to alan bean, the fourth person to walk on the moon, seen here using a brunton compass to make strike and dip... photo via riversidearchives, photo via fordlibrarymuseum hanukkah begins tonight. yisrael yeshayahu, speaker of the knesset, presented a hanukkah menorah to president ford on november 11, 1975, when a... photo via fordlibrarymuseum, rss, random, archive, ask us, submit a comment!, mobile]