[top of page, the library's public wireless network is available in library of congress spaces (reading rooms, exhibit spaces and meeting rooms). please select a starting point from the choices below:, the library of congress web sites have links to other federal agencies. we also link to other organizations' web sites when there is a business reason to do so. this linking does not constitute the library's endorsement of the content of their web sites or of their policies or products., if you have come to a library of congress reading room, we suggest that you begin your research here. easy access is provided to the library's online catalogs, an extensive collection of subscription databases and electronic journals available only onsite, internet resources for research, reading room home pages, and the library's full public web site. go to reading room access to research tools», starting with the library's public home page, you will find easy access to information about services and programs, daily public events, visitor areas and tour information, and much more. a search box will help you move directly to the information you are interested in, and many links are provided to guide you to general topics. go to library of congress public web site»][wireless network, reading room access to research tools, library of congress public web site, related resources]wireless network  |  visiting the library  |  library of congress[][discover, services, visit, education, connect, about, ask a librarian, help, contact, search online catalog, copyright.gov, congress.gov, , , , reading room access to research tools if you have come to a library of congress reading room, we suggest that you begin your research here. easy access is provided to the library's online catalogs, an extensive collection of subscription databases and electronic journals available only onsite, internet resources for research, reading room home pages, and the library's full public web site. go to reading room access to research tools», library of congress public web site starting with the library's public home page, you will find easy access to information about services and programs, daily public events, visitor areas and tour information, and much more. a search box will help you move directly to the information you are interested in, and many links are provided to guide you to general topics. go to library of congress public web site», visiting the library directions know before you go reserve timed-entry pass wireless network, directions, know before you go, reserve timed-entry pass, wireless network, quick look guide, virtual student workshops, virtual views, maps & floor plans, contact visitor engagement, activities for kids and families, connect with the library of congress, news from the library of congress, library of congress magazine, subscribe to e-mail newsletters and alerts, , , , , , , , , take our survey external, accessibility, legal, inspector general, external link disclaimer, usa.gov, careers, contact, media, donate, shop, congress.gov, united states copyright office]