[stay connected, facebooktwitteryoutubeinstagram,  , museum hours: monday - saturday: 9 a.m.-5 p.m. sunday: 1-5 p.m.,  , located at 1200 president clinton ave. little rock, ar 72201,  , contact info clinton.library@nara.gov museum info (501) 374-4242 facility rentals (501) 748-0454 archival reference (501) 244-2877, the clinton presidential library and museum is located within the clinton presidential center and park. the center includes the clinton foundation (little rock office) and the university of arkansas clinton school of public service. , in addition to the archival collections and research facilities, the clinton presidential library and museum features exhibits, special events, and educational programs. the museum includes replicas of the oval office and the cabinet room. permanent exhibits utilize documents, photographs, videos and interactive stations. a timeline and alcoves highlight domestic and foreign policy, as well as life in the white house., the american presidency is part of a unique heritage that is yours to explore through archives, museums, and special programs, presidential libraries preserve the documents and artifacts of our presidents and provide insight into the times in which these presidents lived and served the nation., this exhibit looks into president clinton and first lady hillary rodham clinton’s trip to africa in march and april of 1998. the exhibit highlights museum artifacts, archived audiovisual materials, and historic documents from the clinton presidential library and museum, a part of the presidential library system of the national archives & records administration. , view exhibit, from september 2, 2022 - april 2, 2023, the clinton presidential center will commemorate the anniversary of the 19th amendment and the anniversary of the fourth world conference on women by mounting women’s voices, women’s votes, women’s rights — a vibrant, multimedia exhibit exploring the risks women and their male allies took to win the vote, expand democracy, and elevate human rights. ,  , the william j. clinton presidential library & museum contains over 100,000 three-dimensional objects and works of art, and more than 78 million pages of official records. see a few highlighted artifacts and documents that are not on exhibit., view highlights,  ,  , tours and programs, research, forty two bar & table, faq,  ,  ,  , located at 1200 president clinton ave. little rock, ar 72201,  , contact info clinton.library@nara.gov museum info (501) 374-4242 facility rentals (501) 748-0454 archival reference (501) 244-2877,  , museum hours: monday - saturday: 9 a.m.-5 p.m. sunday: 1-5 p.m., stay connected, facebooktwitteryoutubeinstagram, contact us, accessibility, privacy, no fear act, foia, support partner, clinton foundation][main navigation, online exhibit, president clinton's trip to africa 1998, coming soon, women's voices, women's votes, women's rights, from our collection, highlighted artifacts, documents, and photographs, plan your visit]welcome to william j. clinton presidential library and museum | william j. clinton presidential library and museum[museum hours:, museum hours:, support partner][museum museum permanent exhibits temporary exhibits online exhibits from our collection loan program, museum, permanent exhibits, temporary exhibits, online exhibits, from our collection, loan program, research research digital library clinton biographies, research, digital library, clinton biographies, education education online educational programs we rule: civics for all of us the powers of the presidency lesson plans and activities teacher workshops lifelong learners, education, online educational programs, we rule: civics for all of us, the powers of the presidency, lesson plans and activities, teacher workshops, lifelong learners, visit us visit us accessibility contact us, visit us, accessibility, contact us]