[or, signing up enhances your tce experience with the ability to save items to your personal reading list, and access the interactive map., toronto’s chinatown, one of the largest in north america, is an ever-evolving neighbourhood defined by numerous cohorts of chinese immigrants with a d..., the settlement of vietnamese nationals in canada is relatively recent. it resulted from two waves of immigration in the aftermath of the vietnam war...., immigration of cambodians to canada is relatively recent. from 1980 to 1992, canada welcomed more than 18,000 cambodia refugees who were fleeing the k..., the ss komagata maru was a chartered ship featured in a dramatic challenge to canada’s former practice of excluding immigrants from india. this challe..., korea was a single, independent country for 1,300 years before splitting in two after the second world war. north korea is today an isolated military..., chanukah (also hanukkah, chanukkah, chanuka, and the festival of lights) is the hebrew word for dedication. in canada, chanukah has been celebrated si..., leonard norman cohen, cc, goq, poet, novelist, singer, songwriter (born 21 september 1934 in montreal, qc; died 7 november 2016 in los angeles, califo..., won alexander cumyow (溫金有), activist and interpreter (born around 21 march 1861 in port douglas, bc; died 6 october 1955 in vancouver). won cumyow..., buckam singh, labourer, soldier (born 5 december 1893 in mahilpur, punjab, india; died 27 august 1919 in kitchener, on). there is little information p..., the asahi was a japanese canadian baseball club in vancouver (1914–42). one of the city’s most dominant amateur teams, the asahi used skill and tactic..., ​on 7 june 1939, 907 jewish refugees aboard the ms st. louis were denied entry to canada. the ship returned its passengers to safe harbour in four eur..., the chinese head tax was enacted to restrict immigration after chinese labour was no longer needed to build the canadian pacific railway. between 188..., the montréal bagel is one of canada’s most iconic and coveted snacks. its origins are contested and murky. one theory holds that it was a jewish-vienn..., many canadians today see our diverse population as a source of pride and strength — for good reason. more than one in five canadians were born elsewhe..., kensington market is an open-air food and clothing market in downtown toronto. this multicultural marketplace is known for its independent spirit, col..., hide shimizu (née hyodo), cm, educator, activist (born 11 may 1908 in vancouver, bc; died 22 august 1999 in nepean, on). the daughter of japanese immi..., the christie pits riot occurred on 16 august 1933 in toronto, ontario. it remains one of the worst outbreaks of ethnic violence in canadian history..., jean bessie lumb (née toy jin wong), cm, community leader, restaurateur (born 30 july 1919 in nanaimo, bc; died 17 july 2002 in toronto, on). jean lum..., "i remember some students in my high school who complained about the compulsory history classes. young as we were, we didn’t realize that the course was a privilege only countries at peace can afford.", these questions are based on the real citizenship test taken by newcomers on the path to citizenship., the asia-canada timeline presented here is a chronological record of over 200 years of history since the first chinese settlers helped build a trading post in nootka sound. the timeline touches on the settlement history of various asian groups, the discrimination that many suffered in our early history, accomplishments, firsts, biographies, and the gradual changes through which canadian society came to accept the rights and equality of its asian immigrants.][search the canadian encyclopedia, login, why sign up?, toronto chinatown, vietnamese canadians, cambodian or khmer canadians, komagata maru, korean canadians, chanukah in canada, leonard cohen, won alexander cumyow, buckam singh and sikh canadians in the first world war, vancouver asahi, ms st. louis, chinese head tax in canada, montreal bagels, celebrating asian heritage in canada, kensington market, hide hyodo shimizu, christie pits riot, jean lumb, today in canadian history, asian heritage in canada (medium), asia-canada, a history of multiculturalism in canada, educator resources, latest]home | the canadian encyclopedia[][twitter, facebook, youtube, about, contribute, contact, sitemap, privacy policy, accessibility,   historica canada indigenous arts &amp; stories citizenship challenge encounters with canada heritage minutes passages canada the memory project, historica canada, indigenous arts &amp; stories, citizenship challenge, encounters with canada, heritage minutes, passages canada, the memory project, ]