[president george w. bush signing the reauthorization and extension of the voting rights act, 2006 (national archives) nationwide debates regarding the voting rights act returned in 1992, as the linguistic requirements drew closer to expiration. the first piece of legislation introduced to address the expiration was the voting rights language assistance act of 1992. developed … continue reading legacy of the voting rights act – bridging the old and new millennium, president ronald reagan signing the extensions of the voting rights act into law, 1982 (national archives) the new congress of 1982 found itself considering the provisions of the voting rights act as they neared expiration. a series of hearings were held featuring more witness testimonies; the majority of the 100+ witnesses supported extending the provisions … continue reading legacy of the voting rights act – crossroads of 1982, president gerald ford signing the extensions to the voting rights act into law, 1975 (national archives) the voting rights act of 1965 made discrimination at the ballot box unconstitutional, but it was its special provisions that helped maintain its power. from the original vra’s passage, the special provisions were set to expire in 1970, which … continue reading legacy of the voting rights act – expansions of the 1970s, president lyndon b. johnson greeting rev. dr. martin luther king jr., rosa parks, and other civil rights leaders after signing the voting rights act into law, 1965 (public domain) although the civil rights act of 1964 eliminated all forms of discrimination on the grounds of race, ethnicity, sex, or national origin, it did not fully … continue reading dawn of the voting rights act – voting rights act of 1965, group of “silent sentinels” calling for women’s suffrage in front of the white house, 1917 (public domain) the passage of the fifteenth amendment granted the right to vote to all american men. as the former confederate states returned to the union, they rewrote their laws with the intention of disenfranchising the millions of newly-freed african-americans … continue reading road to the voting rights act – a century of civil rights, thomas kelly print celebrating the fifteenth amendment's passage, 1870 (library of congress) on august 6, 1965, the voting rights act reinforced the fifteenth amendment by declaring that the right to vote was not to be abridged on account of racial identity. while the significance of this landmark piece of legislation is noteworthy, the pursuit for … continue reading road to the voting rights act – voting rights from 1789 to 1869, transcribed first page of voting rights act of 1965 (national archives) the ronald reagan presidential library & museum is pleased to announce a new series of educational blogs! over the next seven weeks, a collection of research writings covering the history of the voting rights act will be published on our own reagan library education … continue reading new blog series: history of the voting rights act, the “search for bonnie and clyde” is a historically-based educational mission-based game. the game is designed for use with students in 6th grade and above and for family and home audiences."search for bonnie and clyde" integrates historical knowledge, primary source documents and photographs from the national archives such as:the brand new "search for bonnie and … continue reading new document-based game: the search for bonnie and clyde, in this blog post, you'll find information on upcoming summer workshops, distance learning opportunities, and our virtual simulation. if you have any questions, please email reaganeducation@nara.gov. on the record: news literacy then & now emmy award winner dr. elizabeth smith (pepperdine university) will be discussing news literacy and its impact on our lives. the breadth … continue reading summer update from the reagan education team!,  president reagan in the oval office. behind him you can see some of the paintings and sculptures he chose to have inside the office during his presidency. at the beginning of the year we posted about president reagan’s oval office. in this post, we’ll look closer at some of the artwork and sculptures president reagan … continue reading the artwork of president reagan’s oval office, email, ][the reagan library education blog, legacy of the voting rights act – bridging the old and new millennium, legacy of the voting rights act – crossroads of 1982, legacy of the voting rights act – expansions of the 1970s, dawn of the voting rights act – voting rights act of 1965, road to the voting rights act – a century of civil rights, road to the voting rights act – voting rights from 1789 to 1869, new blog series: history of the voting rights act, new document-based game: the search for bonnie and clyde, summer update from the reagan education team!, the artwork of president reagan’s oval office, posts navigation, subscribe to email updates, archives, categories, tags, learn more, about the reagan library and museum, , , ]the reagan library education blog[][about the blog, about the bloggers, accessibility, archives.gov, contact us, more blogs from the national archives, privacy policy, @reagan_library on twitter, reaganlibrary.gov, ronald reagan library and museum on facebook]