[george h.w. bush center, , the george bush presidential library and museum is open!, visit the admission page to plan your visit. purchase museum tickets here, the research room is open by appointment. for research information, please contact (979) 691-4041 or email library.bush@nara.gov, take a virtual tour outside the museum, access an audio version of the tour  , , , learn more about the man who said "any definition of a successful life must include serving others.”, , , experience the george h.w. bush presidential library and museum , purchase museum tickets here, the research room is open by appointment. for research information, please contact (979) 691-4041 or email library.bush@nara.gov, take a virtual tour outside the museum, access an audio version of the tour  , , , the george bush presidential library and museum is open!, visit the admission page to plan your visit. purchase museum tickets here, the research room is open by appointment. for research information, please contact (979) 691-4041 or email library.bush@nara.gov, take a virtual tour outside the museum, access an audio version of the tour  , , , learn more about the man who said "any definition of a successful life must include serving others.”, , , experience the george h.w. bush presidential library and museum , purchase museum tickets here, the research room is open by appointment. for research information, please contact (979) 691-4041 or email library.bush@nara.gov, take a virtual tour outside the museum, access an audio version of the tour  , , enjoy a variety of events hosted by the george h.w. bush center., see news, may. 27, 2022, view details, , bring your blankets and lawn chairs as we enjoy this film under the stars. games and free refreshments (while supplies last) will begin at 7 p.m., and the movie will start just after sundown. you may bring your coolers, but please no pets or glass containers.,  , , hosted by: george bush presidential library and museum, jun. 17, 2022, view details, , bring your blankets and lawn chairs as we enjoy this film under the stars. games and free refreshments (while supplies last) will begin at 7 p.m., and the movie will start just after sundown. you may bring your coolers, but please no pets or glass containers.,  , , hosted by: george bush presidential library and museum, receive news about upcoming events, exhibits, and programs!, we will perpetuate the 41st president’s legacy by fulfilling his mission to prepare tomorrow's leaders for lives devoted to public service., our volunteers reflect the love of country and service to others that president and mrs. bush encourage in everyone. interested in becoming a volunteer?, your purchases support the programming and educational goals of the george bush h.w. presidential library center., experience the history, monday - saturday: 9:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. sunday: 12 p.m. - 5 p.m., the bush library and museum closes at noon on christmas eve., the bush library and museum is closed annually on thanksgiving day, christmas day, and new year's day., receive news about upcoming events, exhibits, and programs!][menu, latest news, preserving history promoting public service, experience the history, latest news, preserving history promoting public service, experience the history, upcoming events, education programs, museum admission & hours, upcoming events, summer film series: "shark tale", summer film series: "atlantis: the lost empire", quick links, newsletter signup, support our work, george & barbara bush foundation, volunteer opportunities, museum store, take a virtual tour inside the museum, take a virtual tour outside the museum, access an audio version of the tour  , george h.w. bush center, support, plan your visit, museum hours, learning apps, stay connected, newsletter signup]george h.w. bush library center[the george bush presidential library and museum is open!, purchase museum tickets here, purchase museum tickets here, the george bush presidential library and museum is open!, purchase museum tickets here, purchase museum tickets here][library and museum, foundation  , museum store  , bush school  , history history george h. w. bush's biography barbara bush's biography causes & interests, history, george h. w. bush's biography, barbara bush's biography, causes & interests, plan your visit plan your visit hours & admission directions the bush family gravesite the grounds frequently asked questions museum store research visits helpful links, plan your visit, hours & admission, directions, the bush family gravesite, the grounds, frequently asked questions, museum store, research visits, helpful links, exhibits exhibits overview current rotating exhibits future rotating exhibits permanent exhibits past rotating exhibits, exhibits, overview, current rotating exhibits, future rotating exhibits, permanent exhibits, past rotating exhibits, events, research, museum collections, education education overview make field trip reservations premier programs we rule: civics for all of us distance learning storytelling programs scavenger hunts game apps art & essay contest additional education resources, education, overview, make field trip reservations, premier programs, we rule: civics for all of us distance learning, storytelling programs, scavenger hunts, game apps, art & essay contest, additional education resources, support support presidential library foundation volunteer opportunities give now scholarships, grants & awards, support, presidential library foundation, volunteer opportunities, give now, scholarships, grants & awards, about us about us presidential library and museum internships sponsored programs news & press contact, about us, presidential library and museum, internships, sponsored programs, news & press, contact, library and museum, foundation  , museum store  , bush school  , sign up for the newsletter, history george h. w. bush's biography barbara bush's biography causes & interests, george h. w. bush's biography, barbara bush's biography, causes & interests, plan your visit hours & admission directions the bush family gravesite the grounds frequently asked questions museum store research visits helpful links, hours & admission, directions, the bush family gravesite, the grounds, frequently asked questions, museum store, research visits, helpful links, exhibits overview current rotating exhibits future rotating exhibits permanent exhibits past rotating exhibits, overview, current rotating exhibits, future rotating exhibits, permanent exhibits, past rotating exhibits, events, research, museum collections, education overview make field trip reservations premier programs we rule: civics for all of us distance learning storytelling programs scavenger hunts game apps art & essay contest additional education resources, overview, make field trip reservations, premier programs, we rule: civics for all of us distance learning, storytelling programs, scavenger hunts, game apps, art & essay contest, additional education resources, support presidential library foundation volunteer opportunities give now scholarships, grants & awards, presidential library foundation, volunteer opportunities, give now, scholarships, grants & awards, about us presidential library and museum internships sponsored programs news & press contact, presidential library and museum, internships, sponsored programs, news & press, contact, may. 27, 2022 summer film series: "shark tale" view details bring your blankets and lawn chairs as we enjoy this film under the stars. games and free refreshments (while supplies last) will begin at 7 p.m., and the movie will start just after sundown. you may bring your coolers, but please no pets or glass containers.   hosted by: george bush presidential library and museum, jun. 17, 2022 summer film series: "atlantis: the lost empire" view details bring your blankets and lawn chairs as we enjoy this film under the stars. games and free refreshments (while supplies last) will begin at 7 p.m., and the movie will start just after sundown. you may bring your coolers, but please no pets or glass containers.   hosted by: george bush presidential library and museum, library and museum, george & barbara bush foundation, museum store  , bush school  , why support  , become a member  , give now  , volunteer, overview, purchase tickets, education, hours & admission, directions, the bush family gravesite, the grounds, faq, helpful links for visitors, museum store  , presidential travel mission: india, china, diplomatic dragon, white house dinner dash, cold war dare, , , , , , , , , , privacy policy, contact, accessibility , freedom of information act ]