[benedict arnold is now known mostly as a notorious revolutionary war traitor who secretly tried to sell out the fort at west point in exchange for a payoff and a commission in the british army. but except for a few unfortunate twists of fate, arnold instead might have gone down ...read more, despite recent confusion, canada did not burn down the white house during the war of 1812—in fact, it wasn’t even a country in 1812. though the british attack was conducted in response to an american attack on york, ontario, canada as we know it didn’t exist at the time. canada ...read more, the northwest passage is a famed sea route from the atlantic ocean to the pacific ocean through a group of sparsely populated canadian islands known as the arctic archipelago. european explorers first began to search for the northwest passage in the fifteenth century, but ...read more, the klondike gold rush, often called the yukon gold rush, was a mass exodus of prospecting migrants from their hometowns to canadian yukon territory and alaska after gold was discovered there in 1896. the idea of striking it rich led over 100,000 people from all walks of life to ...read more, 1. the american revolution (1775) the united states had yet to even declare its independence from great britain when the continental army launched an invasion of the neighboring british colony of canada in the summer of 1775. setting out to seize quebec city, the patriots hoped ...read more, in a ceremony presided over by u.s. president dwight d. eisenhower and queen elizabeth ii, the st. lawrence seaway is officially opened, creating a navigational channel from the atlantic ocean to all the great lakes. the seaway, made up of a system of canals, locks, and dredged ...read more, at 9:05 a.m., in the harbor of halifax in the canadian province of nova scotia, the most devastating manmade explosion in the pre-atomic age occurs when the mont blanc, a french munitions ship, explodes 20 minutes after colliding with another vessel. as world war i raged in ...read more, known in the past as the premiere honeymoon destination, this geological wonder is not only one of most popular tourist attractions in the state of new york, but also functions as one of the major power providers to the state itself. comprised of three waterfalls — american ...read more, by a bare majority of 50.6 percent to 49.4 percent, citizens of the province of quebec vote to remain within the federation of canada. the referendum asked quebec’s citizens, the majority of whom are french-speakers, to vote whether their province should begin the process that ...read more, the autonomous dominion of canada, a confederation of nova scotia, new brunswick, and the future provinces of ontario and quebec, is officially recognized by great britain with the passage of the british north america act. july 1 will later become known as canada day. during the ...read more, in accordance with a formal proclamation by queen elizabeth ii of england, a new canadian national flag is raised above parliament hill in ottawa, the capital of canada. beginning in 1610, lower canada, a new british colony, flew great britain’s union jack, or royal union flag. ...read more, at a remote spot called craigellachie in the mountains of british columbia, the last spike is driven into canada’s first transcontinental railway. in 1880, the canadian government contracted the canadian pacific railroad to construct the first all-canadian line to the west coast. ...read more, on november 13, 1775, continental army brigadier general richard montgomery takes montreal, canada, without opposition. montgomery’s victory owed its success in part to ethan allen’s disorganized defeat at the hand of british general and canadian royal governor guy carleton at ...read more, on december 31, 1775, patriot forces under colonel benedict arnold and general richard montgomery attempt to capture the city of quebec under cover of darkness and snowfall. they fail, and the effort costs montgomery his life. on december 2, arnold, montgomery and their troops ...read more, beginning on december 8, 1775, colonel benedict arnold and general richard montgomery lead an american force in the siege of quebec. the americans hoped to capture the british-occupied city and with it win support for the american cause in canada. in june, congress decided to ...read more, in 1534, france’s king francis i authorized the navigator jacques cartier (1491-1557) to lead a voyage to the new world in order to seek gold and other riches, as well as a new route to asia. cartier’s three expeditions along the st. lawrence river would later enable france to ...read more][canada, battle of quebec: when benedict arnold tried to invade canada, canada's long, gradual road to independence, northwest passage, klondike gold rush, 7 times the u.s.-canada border wasn’t so peaceful, st. lawrence seaway opened, the great halifax explosion, niagara falls, quebec separatists narrowly defeated, canada day, canada adopts maple leaf flag, canada’s transcontinental railway completed, patriots take montreal, patriots are defeated at quebec, americans begin siege of quebec, jacques cartier]canada - history[][live tv, shows, this day in history, schedule, topics, stories, videos, history podcasts, history vault, shop, , , , , ad choices, advertise, closed captioning, copyright policy, corporate information, employment opportunities, faq/contact us, privacy notice, terms of use, tv parental guidelines, rss feeds, accessibility support, privacy settings, shows, this day in history, schedule, topics, stories, , , , , shows, this day in history, schedule, topics, stories, ad choices, advertise, closed captioning, copyright policy, corporate information, employment opportunities, faq/contact us, privacy notice, terms of use, tv parental guidelines, rss feeds, accessibility support]