[canada, english, canada, french, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , deutschland, , united kingdom, , nederland, , advertiser disclosure, our priority is to provide reliable and valuable information to help readers make the right choice in the world of online casinos. casinonow canada is a free casino portal for our visitors, but we do make some money by dealing with casino partners for our maintenance. nevertheless, this doesn’t effect the results of our tests and reviews in any way., our experts always carry out unbiased assessments of the various online casino topics. we provide you with rankings of the best online casinos according to the selection criteria. our main goal is to provide reliable guidance to our loyal readers so that they can have the best gaming experience., april 19, 2021, 25 min read, our priority in casinonow canada is to guarantee locals an excellent experience playing online casinos. our tests & reviews are always unbiased. sometimes an online casino is 100% convincing and we decide to partner with it. however, this does not affect the objectivity of our assessment., expert-rating, 5 / 5, software rating, , microgaming casinos in canada are among the most visited online gambling sites as the software provider giant places some of the most popular games on the market. over 800 games and more than 300 slot games, microgaming makes the top 3 choices of software providers to go with when trying out slots with the highest payout percentage. besides all that, players will enjoy the beautifully – designed game interface and 3d graphics and most importantly, a large number of selective pay lines that guarantee massive wins. by following the casinonow page, canadian players have the opportunity to get to know the best microgaming casinos available and their game offer., most microgaming titles are based on pop culture, including movies and tv shows. while there are other themes used, the best microgaming titles are more often than not, a pop culture reference. perhaps the best highlights of the provider are official partnerships with many cultural brands that give players the chance to find their favorite game based on their liking. those searching for adventure and various bonus rounds like free spins, microgaming can provide a wide choice of potential jackpot games., website, founded, 1994, portfolio, headquarters, isle of man, max jackpot, 75,000 coins, min/max deposit, $10 – $10000, ca, 5.0/5, c$1500 + 150 fs, payout rate, 97%, payout time, 2-3 days, min/max deposit, €20 – €10000, payment methods(15), ca, 4.9/5, $200 + 220 fs, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €1000, payment methods(8), ca, 4.8/5, 300 cad + 200 fs, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €10000, payment methods(12), ca, 4.7/5, c$1000 + 200 fs, payout rate, 97%, payout time, 2-3 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €5000, payment methods(8), ca, 4.6/5, c$1000, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1-3 days, min/max deposit, €10 – €5000, payment methods(13), one of the best parts about microgaming casinos are the branded slots. microgaming has partnered with top brands and entertainment properties to bring you an amazing slots experience. no matter what you are into, microgaming casinos have a slots game that will appeal to you. there are hundreds of slot themes throughout microgaming’s catalog. they have sports themes, action and adventure, high roller, science fiction, anime and so much more. the variety of games is one of the things that sets microgaming casino apart from the rest., 4.8 / 5, 5 / 5, 4.7 / 5, 4.9 / 5, 4.8 / 5, 4.6 / 5, 4.8 / 5, 4.2 / 5, 4.9 / 5, 4.9 / 5, 4.8 / 5, 4.7 / 5, you can play a fine range of microgaming casino games both for money and for free. at casinonow, you can try out a large range of the best microgaming casino games without having to put a dollar into your account. be sure to try this out, as you can get the chance to play for both real money and for free through our platform. we want to make sure you fully grasp what it is that microgaming is offering you. through our system, you can try it out for yourself first hand., reels, 5, playlines, 243, rtp, 96.86, 4.9 / 5, hugely popular, this is a game with a very interesting theme and a really intriguing video game-like feeling to it. playing immortal romance might actually remind you of playing some old school arcade games, albeit with the chance to win some pretty nifty rewards if you are good enough!, reels, 5, playlines, 243, rtp, 96.67, 4.8 / 5, who can’t enjoy the awesome video games based around one of the most iconic movie series of all time? try out the jurassic park games and you will be glad that you did. it’s the perfect choice for anyone who is looking to play a movie-themed slots game., reels, 5, playlines, 25, rtp, 96.37, 4.6 / 5, put yourself in the ring with some proper luchador wrestlers in this mexican-themed wonder. one of the best slot games to try out, with 25 paylines to enjoy and plenty of chances to win some free spins and other bonus features as you play through its numerous rounds., reels, 5, playlines, 15, rtp, 94.86, 4.5 / 5, based on the hit tv series, got fans will love playing on this slots game. definitely one of the most popular slots games in canada at the moment. it’s got a fantastic range of themes and finger points to this most famous, epic of tv shows., reels, 5, playlines, 15, rtp, 96.56, 4.5 / 5, a proper classic slots game, this carries the kind of look and feel that most gamers will be looking for when playing slots. it’s got all of the classic slots images – symbols and signs with a nice aquatic touch to them, as well as mermaids themselves and pearls., rtp value, 99.92%, rtp value, 99.91%, rtp value, 99.69%, rtp value, 99.65%, rtp value, 99.65%, rtp value, 99.65%, rtp value, 99.62%, rtp value, 99.60%, rtp value, 99.60%, rtp value, 99.60%, just like a real-life casino, microgaming offers a wide range of card and table games as well. try your hands against other canadians in group style games like poker or craps. you can also take on the house and try to win big in popular games like blackjack or roulette. if you are a little more experienced or adventurous, there are plenty of other games that are fun to play and win at. try something new like three card rummy, baccarat or double exposure. you can find your favorite game or try them all in the microgaming casino!, advantages, disadvantages, if you are ready to jump on the booming trend of online casinos and start winning money today, go to online casino from the list and start your account. there are so many games to choose from. there are over 800 games to choose from and new options all the time so you will never run out of choices. it is an incredibly popular site with thousands of real canadian users. this enhances the experience and, more importantly, enhances the progressive jackpots you can win. if you are a gambler, card player or just someone who enjoys a great time, check out microgaming casinos in canada now!, there are so many games you can play through microgaming casinos in canada and worldwide. the games include a wide range of slots, card and table games and multiplayer games. there are new games released every month on both desktop and mobile sights. in the last month alone microgaming casinos have released titles such as zeus: ancient fortunes, agent jane blonde returns, roulette, bookie of odds and zombie hoard. you can play these games at any time of the day or night. it’s so convenient and fun. join thousands of other canadians who have already started playing these games. get access to real casino games at home or on your phone and win today with microgaming casino., the progressive jackpot slots that microgaming casinos offer make it easier than ever to win the big money. they have hundreds of progressive slots games which means the jackpot is always growing bigger. with each pull of the handle, the jackpot grows and grows. they’ve paid out over 800 million in these progressive slots and that number will only go up. whether you are a serious slots player or a novice, you will be able to find a game you love with microgaming casino. all that matters is you play and win money. each pull you take gives you one more chance to hit that progressive jackpot. so jump in, find your favorite game and start playing today., the games that they develop are easily some of the most aesthetically pleasing in the whole industry. microgaming games definitely have some of the most interesting designs, and make a fine choice for most gamers. if you like a mix of smart designs and themes that you can recognise instantly, this is the perfect place for you., topics are varied and diverse, with microgaming offering some really interesting design elements to go and try out. the games are nice and varied, with their topics going from things to do with ancient mythology to classic slot machine designs. one reason to look at their games, though, is the number of licensed deals that microgaming are able to give you access to. you can find everything from games related to your favourite tv shows to games that can give you an interest in a whole new subject. in terms of game topics, they are easily one of the most ambitious groups going at the moment., the interface of their games is often very easy to use, as well. you should find it easy to work with their interfaces even on a mobile screen. it’s easy to get to every feature even if you are playing on a smaller screen than you might be used to., tech standards with microgaming are very high indeed. the company easily has some of the best games for you to pick from out of the entire industry, and their secure technology does a fine job of making sure you can keep on playing whilst knowing everything is completely fair., they hold various licenses around the world, but their most prominent license is in the uk market. located in the isle of man, the company has a uk gambling commission license. with over 150 accredit casinos to their name, too, this is a company with a huge supporting cast worldwide and in canada., safe and secure, their games are known to have rtp rates in the 96+ percentile. they also have a fine range of casinos that entirely integrate their games, meaning that you don’t always need to download a microgaming game via the casino client to try it out., independently audited and checked regularly, this is a company with over two decades in the industry. you have no real reason to doubt the security or the safety of a game from microgaming. their games and associated casinos are independently checked to ensure they are safe, fair, and easy to play., the games are of a high standard on both desktop and mobile. in fact, most mobile games are able to work flawlessly on a mobile browser and nothing else. some games, though, will need to be downloaded, so try and keep space about that particular side of things., at microgaming, bonuses often come in the form of free spins when playing their games. they also tend to have some nice progressive jackpots, as you would expect from a major marketplace leader. also, they tend to run a fair number of tournaments at varying skill levels throughout the year for more competitive players., microgaming is an online gambling platform that provides real-life casino games on a digital platform in canada and around the world. founded in 1996, they were among the first companies worldwide to offer online gambling. they’ve continued to develop their software over the years and have been offering live, online gaming and tournaments for the last decade. today, their software is supported on major mobile platforms as well such as android, iphone, and ipad. they have over 650 thousand player accounts for their casinos and do a whopping 160 million transactions every year. simply put, microgaming is the most exciting brand in the online gambling industry., formed in 1994, microgaming has grown rapidly from being a small underdog to being a major marketplace leader. their game are widely respected as some of the best in the business, and they hold over 150 accredited casino partnerships. indeed, they developed their first online casino platform in 1994 and since then have grown massively in size. given that they were among the first to dip their toes into the water, microgaming have since the made online casino industry their own. they have numerous games of various styles, always introducing innovative ideas to their latest developments., microgaming casinos offers a number of advantages over both other online platforms and traditional brick and mortar casinos. these are a few of the reasons microgaming casinos are head and shoulders above the rest. microgaming offers over 500 casino games. they have slots, poker, live dealer games, sportsbooks and more. the more games, the more chances to win! they also offer a wide range of branded slots. you can play the slots with themes such as game of thrones, jurassic world, terminator 2 or even bridesmaids., also, the casino games from microgaming have a dual release on both desktop and mobile devices. having your casino account on more than one platform gives you so many more options to play. you can play from the comfort of your own home or take the casino on the road with you on your mobile device. the best part about microgaming casinos though is the progressive jackpots. this means each time a game is played and the jackpot is not won, the payout grows bigger. their progressive jackpot network had paid out over 820 million all time! as i write this the jackpot is over 7 million and climbing. which means, by the time you read this it will probably be even higher!, microgaming was formed, taking its hq on the isle of man in douglas., moved in to the online gambling market., developed the first wide-area progressive slots game, cash splash., becomes a founding member of ecogra., releases global first mobile slots and branded slots packages., begins offering online horse racing gambling and instant online lotteries., launches the people’s poker network helping create the boom of online poker., mega moolah progressive jackpot paid out a world record $6.37m in one game., launches thunderstruck ii; a world leader in casino entertainment., set a new guinness world record payout, with a payout of £13.2m., partnered with oculus rift to develop a greater focus on virtual reality gaming., opened their new flagship sixty two hq in douglas, isle of man., microgaming casinos offers over 90+ brands of casino games such as slots, poker, baccarat, craps, blackjack and much more., that microgaming was one of the first slot developers in the world? in 1994, they were ahead of the global curve and started this worldwide popular craze! indeed, they’ve went on to set many records in this very engaging industry. over the years, they’ve managed to secure a place not only in the record books for jackpot wins (€17.87m), but also for fairness. they were a key founding member of ecogra; a source of good in gambling regulation and assurance., slots platform of the year, malta gaming awards., tech investment award, national technology awards., company of the year, women in gaming diversity awards., diversity and inclusion, women in gaming diversity awards., environmental leadership initiative of the year, community initiative of the year, reb., the current maximum jackpot that we could find from microgaming was their 13.2m slot, which paid out via their mega moolah slot game. given their slots are regularly progressive, winning sums can be massive when played on a microgaming affiliated casino platform., if you intend to win at microgaming, then we recommend that you try and put the following tips into action to see the best results:, at casinonow, we think that it’s very easy to see why so many people tend to turn to microgaming casinos in canada. their variety and their mixture of high intensity games makes it one of the most enjoyable companies to play with by far. if you are looking for a fun and satisfying way to enjoy your casino gaming, then you should absolutely look to try out microgaming. yes, it does have some limits, but this is easily one of the companies that has earned their reputation the most in this deeply competitive, challenging industry overall., microgaming casinos has everything you want in a casino experience. the best part is, you don’t have to leave the comfort of your home to go there. whether you play on your desktop computer or mobile device, these casino games will provide hours of enjoyment and with a little luck, real money! don’t miss out on all the fun. microgaming casinos are a leader in the industry and have a great reputation for engaging casino entertainment. with new releases every month you will never again have to settle for the same boring options. you can’t get a more realistic, diverse and entertaining casino experience anywhere else on the internet. microgaming has a great reputation and the money they’ve paid out over the years speaks for itself. we recommend microgaming casinos all the time., you can find some of the top casino platforms and casino software systems through the casinonow platform. if you intend to learn about casino gaming, you can find all of the information that you could possibly need through our portal today. for canadian gamers, then, you shouldn’t expect to see too many problems with finding quality, reliable games – from microgaming or any of the other major developers., at the moment, microgaming has partnerships with over 150 casinos across the world. you can find a good range of casinos that microgaming operate with at casinonow., yes, they do. they run progressive jackpots like mega moolah slot. they have produced some of the largest progressive jackpot wins worldwide., microgaming casinos are an online gambling platform that allows you to play a wide variety of games for real money. you can also connect with thousands of other players from canada while you play. microgaming casinos give you the feel of being in a real casino right from your home. this is the most fun and engaging way to play casino games online. they have a wide variety of games to pick from. you can play slots or any number of classic casino games like poker, roulette or blackjack. there are free versions to play to get up to speed and when you are ready, you can jump in and win real money., 100%. microgaming is protected as a trustworthy, authentic source of online casino gaming, indeed, they were a founding member of ecogra and the igc; two major bodies in casino management and fairness., yes, you can. you can usually do this through various globally used methods, such as skrill, neteller, and bank transfer. every company is different, though, so be sure to check out their alternatives., casino expert, james taylor is the chief editor of casinonow canada portal. this is the professional name of our bilingual go-to guy who adds value to all our work. he has been working as editor-in-chief at casinonow canada since 2018. previously, he studied at the university of quebec in montreal and worked in market research companies., canada, english, canada, french, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , deutschland, , united kingdom, , nederland, , you are in safe hands, our recommended casinos have been certified by, sign up for +350 free spins!, by entering your e-mail here, you confirm your subscription to our newsletter. please be aware that all online players must be of legal age (18+). please confirm that you have read the t&cs and cookies policies, and that you accept the privacy terms., casino-now-canada.com website is certified by, casinonow’s mission is to provide content that aims to help all online casino players in canada. we provide reviews and comparisons between different online casinos according to unique rating criteria. as a result our team deal with different themes such as casino bonuses, payment methods, casino games, software companies and much more. we are independent experts who make useful and up-to-date guides for online players from canada., address 439 university avenue, toronto, ontario, m5g 1y8, phone no. +1 (877) 705-0707, copyright © 2017-2020 casino-now-canada.com all rights reserved][best-rated microgaming casinos 2022, top 5 trusted microgaming casinos in canada, microgaming collection: full games list 2022, top 5 microgaming games in canada 2022, microgaming games & slots rtp list – choose highest & best rtp!, card and table games at microgaming casinos, advantages & disadvantages of microgaming casino software, microgaming casino games experience, games selection, games design, games topic, games interface, software & technologies, games licensing, casino integration, safety & security, mobile gaming, games bonus, who are microgaming?, microgaming history, microgaming milestones, did you know?, microgaming awards, maximum jackpot in the games of this software, microgaming casinos – best tips, microgaming software – our conclusion, read more about online casino software, microgaming casinos – faqs, who do microgaming work with?, do microgaming run any progressive jackpots?, what are microgaming casinos in canada?, is microgaming safe to use?, can i make a deposit with a microgaming casino?, about the author]best microgaming casinos in canada [top-rated list 2022][microgaming casinos, microgaming casinos in canada are among the most visited online gambling sites as the software provider, most microgaming titles are based on pop culture, including movies and tv shows, the branded slots, the chance to play for both real money and for free through our platform, over 800 games, first companies worldwide to offer online gambling, over 500 casino games, both desktop and mobile devices, progressive jackpots, 2010, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2020, 2019, 2019, via their mega moolah slot game, casino-now-canada.com , address, phone no., casino-now-canada.com][about us, canada english canada french schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich deutschland united kingdom nederland, canada french, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, deutschland, united kingdom, nederland, casinos, bonuses, slots, games, deposits, software, casinonow, , casino software, , microgaming casinos, payout rate 97%, payout time 2-3 days, min/max deposit €20 – €10000, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , a huge selection of games available made by top tier software providers, the customer support team is at its best, with live chat, email and phone support, playamo casino is a completely legitimate venture, fully licensed by the top igaming authorities., payout rate 98%, payout time 1 days, min/max deposit €10 – €1000, , , , , , , , , a solid selection of software providers, customer service is available to contact 24/7, live chat option is especially useful in this sense, payout rate 98%, payout time 1 days, min/max deposit €10 – €10000, , , , , , , , , , , , , woo casino features support for cryptocurrencies and bitcoin cash, alongside other payment methods, the owner of woo casino, direx n.v. is a legitimate, trusted operator of several top-tier online casinos, there is a nice bonus for the new players in the form of several hundred free spins for the slots, payout rate 97%, payout time 2-3 days, min/max deposit €10 – €5000, , , , , , , , , thousands of available games that the players can play – made by top tier developers, big welcome deposit bonus for new players in the form of free betting money, dozens of live games to enjoy in the live casino section, payout rate 98%, payout time 1-3 days, min/max deposit €10 – €5000, , , , , , , , , , , , , , fully licensed and legit online casino – owned by the palace group, some of the best games made by reputable developer microgaming, big casino bonuses especially for the new players, microgaming collection: full games list 2022, top 5 microgaming games in canada 2022, advantages & disadvantages of microgaming casino software, microgaming casino games experience, who are microgaming?, microgaming software – our conclusion, previous, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, next, previous, 1, 2, next, a long history in the industry, with over two decades of award-winning success., a fine range of games, with designs that are inspired and related to major pop culture., regular monthly releases with titles that tie in with popular content from the era., improvements to gaming methods and bonus rounds are common in microgaming games., intelligent, smart designs that show off their games in the best light. modern, quality graphics., compared to other providers, it’s often hard to find your exact game due to the choice., microgaming is somewhat limited geographically; us players cannot take part., games can be quite large in file size, taking up a lot of space when downloaded., always try and pick a game with a high rtp. most microgaming slot game come with an rtp in the 95-96% range. some, though, like avalon, have a 97% range., get used to the cycle length in some slot games. some games are faster than other, which is very important to get your head around early., be sure to look into the most volatile games, with some games carrying a very explosive style. for example, age of discovery is seen as a very volatile slots game., some games come with a better return the higher that you go. some games are known to provide better rewards if you go with a more ambitious wager, so keep that in mind., find your best boku microgaming payforit paysafecard visa real money casinos, boku, microgaming, payforit, paysafecard, visa, real money casinos, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, casino games online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots roulette blackjack live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots, video slots, classic slots, 3d slots, roulette, blackjack, live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, live 3 сard poker, live blackjack, live roulette, live holdem, live baccarat, deposits boku payforit paysafecard visa ukash zimpler neteller entropay, boku, payforit, paysafecard, visa, ukash, zimpler, neteller, entropay, mobile casinos android casino iphone casino ipad casino, android casino, iphone casino, ipad casino, guides gambling regulation territories saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia alberta ontario quebec atlantic provinces, gambling regulation, territories, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, alberta, ontario, quebec, atlantic provinces, canada english canada french schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich deutschland united kingdom nederland, canada french, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, deutschland, united kingdom, nederland, about us james taylor privacy policy, james taylor, privacy policy, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, gambling regulation saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, best of real money casinos best payout new casino, real money casinos, best payout, new casino]