[by lauren velting | march 4, 2022 | ford forum | 0 comments, by lauren velting | february 21, 2022 | ford forum | 0 comments, by lauren velting | january 20, 2022 | ford forum | 0 comments, ,  , view more,  ,  ,  , each year, the gerald r. ford presidential foundation awards two distinguished journalism prizes, one for reporting on the presidency and the other for reporting on national defense. these prizes, initiated in 1988, recognize reportorial excellence and the fostering of better public understanding of the presidency and national defense. each year the two prizes are presented to the winners at a reception and event in washington, d.c. and include a $5,000 award, one for each prize., the gerald r. ford presidential foundation sponsors the gerald r. ford journalism prizes for distinguished reporting on the presidency and distinguished reporting on national defense to recognize and encourage thoughtful, insightful, and enterprising work by journalists covering the presidency and national defense. the foundation is a private, nonprofit, nonpartisan corporation whose programs are supported entirely by contributions and bequests in an effort to honor president ford’s sustained commitment to public service., learn more, , bob barrett passed away on january 11, 2022, of covid-19 related complications in palm beach gardens, florida. he was 83 years old. bob barrett served president ford in a variety of capacities, including as a military aide and as a member of the gerald r. ford board of trustees (1981-2015). to read richard norton smith’s interview with bob barrett, please see the gerald r. ford oral history project here. read the official news release of his passing here., , bob browne passed away peacefully on january 8, 2022, of natural causes in his home in north palm beach, florida. he was 97 years old. bob browne served on the gerald r. ford board of trustees (1996-2019). for more on bob browne, please visit his trustee biography here and his obituary here., , lena meijer passed away on january 15, 2022. she was a loving wife, mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother, spouse, and partner of the late retailing entrepreneur fred meijer. read her obituary here. , women in uniform january 24 – may 6, 2022, this is an exhibition of rarely displayed art from the naval history and heritage command’s collection. included are images of a yeoman (f) in wwi to an aviator, from a sailor to an admiral, this exhibition features works of art that depict female navy military personnel.  women have had a continuous and growing presence in the u.s. navy throughout the 20th and 21st centuries. the artworks in this exhibition, including those of a yeoman, aviator, sailor, and an admiral, demonstrate the wide-ranging and varied opportunities women have held as they continue to push the boundaries of prospects available to them. preview the art online click here. tickets must be purchased in advance and online,  , , learn more, view our schedule of events, apr 27, 2022, colonel bridget brozyna, ret. u.s. air force, lorrena back, u.s. army, and sarah anderson, u.s. marine corp., apr 14, 2022, a conversation with playwright, director, and producer lisa rafferty. rafferty discussed her work creating the documentary play she did all that - betty ford: speaking out, saving lives which offers insight into an extraordinary first lady., apr 4, 2022, pulitzer prize-winning historian, journalist, and commentator anne applebaum delivered the keynote lecture of the spring 2022 democracy in crisis series, in conversation with ford school dean michael s. barr. anne applebaum pulitzer prize-winning historian,..., your donation supports important gerald r. ford presidential library and museum activities, which are not funded by the federal government. examples of supported activities include exhibits, speakers, educational programs and community events. donate today!,  , ][ford-inspired march 2022, ford-inspired presidents’ day, ford-inspired january 2022,  , watch the newest episode of exploring the question with lindsay chervinsky!, the 35th annual gerald r. ford journalism prize competition, exhibit at the gerald r. ford presidential museum, h.w. brands: our first civil war, ford features, the second world war: echoes from the past with sir antony beevor, exploring the question: episode 8, lindsay chervinsky: presidents’ day celebration, exploring the question: episode 7, notably absent: presidential no-shows and other mishaps on inauguration day, honoring commander in chief gerald r. ford, cocoa and story time at the ford roundhouse, upcoming events, foundation partners:, gerald r. ford presidential library, gerald r. ford presidential museum, devos learning center, events & news:, women in uniform: women who served panel, lisa rafferty she did all that with flare, the twilight of democracy, support the gerald r. ford presidential foundation, pin it on pinterest]gerald r. ford presidential foundation[lindsay chervinsky, friday, march 18, 2022, learn more, gerald r. ford oral history project here, here, bob browne, trustee biography here, lena meijer, exhibit at the gerald r. ford presidential museum, women in uniform, january 24 – may 6, 2022, click here., view our schedule of events, your donation, donate today!][foundation mission statement board of trustees staff and fellows milestones national tributes gerald r. ford bio grf timeline betty ford bio ebf timeline oral histories ford library ford museum devos center, mission statement, board of trustees, staff and fellows, milestones, national tributes, gerald r. ford bio, grf timeline, betty ford bio, ebf timeline, oral histories, ford library, ford museum, devos center, events future events past events, future events, past events, leadership ford forum devos learning ctr, ford forum, devos learning ctr, awards, media news magazine webcast, news, magazine, webcast, connect, donate, student programs at the devos learning center, temporary exhibits such as ‘in step with betty ford’, student essay challenge with scholarship prize, underwriting opportunities, archival research grants at the library and museum, facebook, twitter, flickr, vimeo]