[discover all the experiences you could ask for on the devices you love. award-winning shows and movies, amazing music in spatial audio and superfun games. it’s the most visionary, relevant, high-quality content you’ll find. and it’s only on apple., get four services in one subscription with apple one., a lifetime of photos on all your devices., record home security video. view it from anywhere.5, share photos, folders, and files with ease., store files in the cloud. keep them safe. access them from anywhere., automatic backups give you peace of mind.6, browse like it’s nobody’s business. because it isn’t., bundle up to four apple services and enjoy more for less.][the best experiences. only on apple., apple tv+, stream award-winning apple originals on every screen., apple music, listen to music you love in spatial audio with dolby atmos.2, apple arcade, best collection of mobile games for every player., icloud, the best place for photos and files. great features to protect your privacy., apple one, apple podcasts, millions of shows, from the biggest names to the best independents., apple books, read, listen, discover. all in one place., apple footer, learn, services, account, for business, apple values, about apple]only on apple - services - apple[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, apple, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, support, where to buy, , apple tv+, apple music, apple arcade, icloud, apple podcasts, apple books, a lifetime of photos on all your devices., record home security video. view it from anywhere.5, share photos, folders, and files with ease., store files in the cloud. keep them safe. access them from anywhere., automatic backups give you peace of mind.6, browse like it’s nobody’s business. because it isn’t., try it free7, learn more, new subscribers only. $4.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews until cancelled. terms apply., compatible hardware and software required. not all content available in dolby atmos., individual plan is $5.99/month after free trial for new subscribers. plan auto-renews until canceled. terms apply. pricing shown in usd and may vary by country. in peru the student plan is s/10.90 per month, the individual plan is s/20.90 per month and the family plan is s/31.90 per month. in argentina the student plan is usd $1.99 per month, the individual plan is usd $2.99 per month and the family plan is usd $4.99 per month., new subscribers only. $4.99/month after free trial. plan automatically renews until cancelled. terms apply., homekit secure video requires a supported icloud+ plan, compatible homekit-enabled security camera, and homepod, apple tv, or ipad running as a home hub., backup of purchased music is not available in all countries or regions. previous purchases may not be restored if they are no longer on the itunes store, app store, or apple books., the apple one free trial includes only services that you are not currently using through a free trial or a subscription. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., icloud requires ios 5 or later on iphone 3gs or later, ipod touch (3rd generation or later), ipad pro, ipad or later, ipad air or later, or ipad mini or later; a mac computer with os x lion 10.7.5 or later; or a pc with windows 7 or windows 8 (outlook 2007 or later or an up-to-date browser is required for accessing email, contacts, and calendars). some features require ios 15 or ipados 15 and macos monterey. some features require a wi-fi connection. some features are not available in all countries or regions. access to some services is limited to 10 devices., only on apple, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, ipod touch, airtag, apple music, apple tv+, apple arcade, icloud, apple one, apple books, apple podcasts, app store, manage your apple id, icloud.com, apple and business, accessibility, environment, privacy, career opportunities, investors, ethics & compliance, events]