[canada, english, canada, french, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, april 19, 2021, 9 min read, our priority in casinonow canada is to guarantee locals an excellent experience playing online casinos. our tests & reviews are always unbiased. sometimes an online casino is 100% convincing and we decide to partner with it. however, this does not affect the objectivity of our assessment., rating, 4.6 / 5, casino rating, review and rating of scores is carried out according to many criteria. to evaluate online casinos, their reliability and safety, license, convenience, popularity in a particular country, the payment methods offered and the variety of game developers are checked., slots are some of the most popular games not just in regular casinos – but in online casinos, as well. most online casinos feature hundreds of slots made by top developers. and soo too does spin casino. in fact, spin casino has some top slots action that the players can’t find anywhere else. read our review to learn more about what this exciting online casino has to offer., ca, c$1000, trust and fairness, 4.6 / 5, games, 4.6 / 5, bonus, 4.7 / 5, customer service, 4.7 / 5, available games, slots, blackjack, roulette, baccarat, table games, craps, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1-3 days, min/max deposit, , payment methods(13), owned and operated by the well-known palace group (the operator of other popular casinos, such as spin palace), spin casino is one of the newest online gambling places where many players congregate to play their favorite gambling games. spin casino is completely legit in that it’s licensed by two separate igaming authorities – the malta gaming authority and the kahnawake gaming commission., the casino’s main software provider is microgaming and this company has created the vast majority of games at spin casino. if you want to learn more about spin casino, then you have come to the right place. below you will get to read our spin casino review. in it, you will learn about the advantages and disadvantages of spin casino, the welcome bonus at spin casino, games spin casino section that players can play like blackjack and poker, the payment options that the players could use, and other important information about what makes spin casino so great., there are several advantages and a few disadvantages regarding spin casino. here you will get to see our lists of these two categories., advantages, disadvantages, you would learn best about the advantages and disadvantages of spin casino by using it for yourself. and, on average and in our opinion, there are much more advantages to using spin casino than there are disadvantages., one of the best parts about spin casino is that there are handsome bonus offers for the players. and one of spin casino’s main bonus offers is the welcome deposit match bonus. you can get the welcome bonus, in fact, for your first three deposits., the first deposit of the three deposits of the welcome bonus will reward you with a 100% deposit match bonus up to $400. the second deposit bonus will reward you with a 100% match up to $300, just like the third deposit. so, all in all, if you manage to make the most of it, you will get $1,000 for you free play on the games at spin casino., the rest of the bonuses are a bit vague. spin casino tells us that we should sign up in order to be eligible for the other daily spin casino offers and a bonus, but it doesn’t tell the players at the outset what these offers are. there are tournaments that you can play in and compete against other players for bonus rewards, and the higher up you climb on the tournament ladders, the bigger the rewards that you will get., one exciting bonus that the players can look forward to is the loyalty club bonus. what this means is that you will gather loyalty points as a bonus as you play any casino game at spin casino. and the more wagers you bet, the more points you will get. you can then proceed to redeem these points and get free credits with which you can spin the reels and play other gambling games. there are several levels that you can reach on the loyalty ladder, including:, and as you progress through the loyalty ladder tiers, you will begin reaping even bigger rewards than previously. it’s a nice opportunity to gather some prizes as you play., spin casino is a very safe online casino. as we’ve mentioned before, it’s owned and operated by the spin palace group, with a license number mga/b2c/145/2007. and the palace group is the proud owner of operator of several other popular and completely legitimate casinos, such as spin palace casino. moreover, spin casino is licensed by the malta gaming authority and the kahnawake gaming commission – and both of these regulatory authorities have very high esteem in the world of igaming., in terms of software providers – currently the main one is microgaming. most of the games are made by this developer. and if you know your gambling – then you know that microgaming is a serious company that would have nothing to do with shady casinos. so, the fact that microgaming is the primary software provider at spin casino ought to be more than enough to show that spin casino is indeed legitimate. it goes without saying that all of the spin casino games are tested for their fairness and rng use and there have never been reported any problems regarding this whatsoever., the registration process at spin casino is very easy to go through. the players can follow our simple step-by-step list that we’ll provide for you below:, and that’s all there is to it, you can now visit the game lobby and select the game that you wish to play – you will be playing with real money, so make sure that you gamble responsibly., the mobile casino version of spin casino is also delightful to use. you may be put off by the fact that there aren’t any mobile apps that you can download and install on your mobile device. but you shouldn’t worry about this as one of the newest trends for online casinos is that they don’t offer any apps, but they focus the mobile gaming experience on their mobile website. so, regardless if you have a windows phone or an android phone or an ios phone, you will get access to the excellent mobile gaming platform at spin casino., you will get the same great bonuses that you would otherwise get by using the regular version of the casino, including the exclusive tournaments that can bring you big rewards. and there’s really not that big of a difference between the two versions. the fact is that some of the games may not be fully compatible with your device, especially if it’s an older one. but if you have a newer device model, then you won’t have any problems whatsoever with using the spin casino mobile gaming platform., but what about the games? we’ve discussed the mobile platform, the bonuses, and the legitimacy of this online casino, but we’ve failed to address what kinds of games are available here. there are more than 400 different games that you can play here, and you will learn more about them by continuing to read our spin casino review below. for now, suffice it to be aware that the gaming platform at spin casino is excellent by all standards., there are many different types of games that you can play at spin casino. some of them are:, , and others. and below you will get to read about the exact casino games that you can enjoy at spin casino., practically every piece of software at spin casino is made by microgaming – all but the live casino games. the live casino games, on the other hand, are made by evolution gaming. chances are that this company needs no introduction to you – unless you’re a complete stranger to live games, then you have definitely heard of evolution gaming. and you know that they make some of the live dealer games to date. so, the spin casino live section features a handful of the best live games, such as:, and several others. of course, you can’t expect to play live slots, as this is not one of the options in online casinos, yet. if live games are your thing, then you owe it to yourself to visit this section at spin casino., at spin casino, there are several payment options to choose from for deposits and withdrawals. in fact, there are 8 deposit methods and just as much withdrawal methods. here are some of the most frequently used:, customer support at spin casino is also legit. you can contact customer support in one of two ways – either by using the live chat option or the email contact option. the chat feature is available 24/7 and you can use it at all times. you will get quick answers to simpler questions., but if you wish to ask more in-depth questions, then you should use the email address that you can find on the website to contact customer support. the email address can be used for any purpose whatsoever, so, if you have any questions, don’t hesitate to write. the customer service team will get back to you in no time and support you with all the answers you want., responsible gaming is an important concept for spin casino. it goes without saying that spin casino has a separate page on its website concerning the implementation of responsible gaming measures. for one, you could enter a cool-off period in which you will be barred from gambling for at least 24 hours. or, you could enter your name into a self-exclusion list and you will be banned from gambling at spin casino for a period of at least six months., also, there are various limits that you could impose upon yourself, such as daily and monthly deposit and wager limits, and the like. you can visit websites like: https://www.gamblingtherapy.org, https://www.responsiblegambling.org/, and http://www.gamcare.org.uk for more information and help with battling any gambling problems that you may be experiencing., in terms of its design, spin casino is all but perfect. right as you enter the casino, you will be treated to a beautiful vista of an entire casino city. not many casinos have the power to present such a beautiful theme upon entry – it really grabs the players’ attention. and the menus are all designed properly – you can find your way very easy on the platform regardless of your previous experience with internet casinos. from the very first moment you lay eyes on the spin casino logo, you will be entering a place with a beautiful atmosphere., most of the spin casino’s users report that they are very satisfied, even impressed, with how well spin casino is organized, how many games are available and how many banking options they can use for depositing and withdrawing money. the new players are also delighted to see what spin casino has on offer. don’t forget to use the spin casino bonuses for an optimal experience. and remember, if you have any questions – contact customer support immediately., i can’t get enough of microgaming slots! spin casino has a vast selection and i enjoy it very much! – jill w., toronto, by now, you’re fully aware of the potential of spin casino. there are hundreds of different online casino games in all different sections, including slots, table games such as blackjack and roulette, and even live casino games. so, the main products that you can expect to get at the online casino spin casino are the table games, the video poker games, the slots, and the live games. but we can’t neglect the spin casino sports betting platform either. there are some of the most popular sports that are available to bet on in this section and sports bettors are typically delighted to bet here, as well., so, if you’re a fan of the game of table games like blackjack, poker, roulette, or slots, then you owe it to yourself to visit spin casino. we hope that we have convinced you to visit spin casino with our in-depth review. there are several other reasons why you should do this. namely, the customer support is on point – you can use live chat option or email for immediate answers., casino spin also has a handful of live dealer games, such as live dream catcher. the live dealer experience is a vital piece of the entire casino spin experience. not many online casinos can brag that they are equal to casino spin in what they offer. to round things off, there are many banking options that the players could use. we hope that you will have a fantastic time playing the slot or blackjack or poker games at spin casino as much as we did., spin casino is owned by reputable company palace group, owner of other popular casinos such as spin palace., you can play the game of blackjack, poker, roulette, slots, and live versions of popular table casino games., you can use visa, mastercard, or another credit card, neteller, bank transfer, etc., spin casino is licensed by the malta gaming authority and the kahnawake gambling commission., you can get the welcome bonus, for starters. the welcome bonus will reward you with up to $1,000 of betting money, and as such, it’s very generous. spin casino has a list of other bonuses, as well, that you can look forward to, including progressive jackpots and other prizes., chief editor, james taylor is the chief editor of casinonow canada portal. this is the professional name of our bilingual go-to guy who adds value to all our work. he has been working as editor-in-chief at casionnow canada since 2018. previously, he studied at the university of quebec in montreal and worked in market research companies., canada, english, canada, french, schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, you are in safe hands, our recommended casinos have been certified by, sign up for +350 free spins!, by entering your e-mail here, you confirm your subscription to our newsletter. please be aware that all online players must be of legal age (18+). please confirm that you have read the t&cs and cookies policies, and that you accept the privacy terms., casino-now-canada.com website is certified by, casinonow’s mission is to provide content that aims to help all online casino players in canada. we provide reviews and comparisons between different online casinos according to unique rating criteria. as a result our team deal with different themes such as casino bonuses, payment methods, casino games, software companies and much more. we are independent experts who make useful and up-to-date guides for online players from canada., address 439 university avenue, toronto, ontario, m5g 1y8, phone no. +1 (877) 705-0707, copyright © 2017-2020 casino-now-canada.com all rights reserved][spin casino review 2022, site preview, brief overview, general information of online casino, advantages and disadvantages, bonus offers, loyalty and vip program, security & fairness – licensed & legit, how to start in spin casino, mobile casino, casino games & platforms, games variety, top 5 popular slots, top 5 popular table games, live dealer games, deposits and withdrawals options, customer support – friendly and forthcoming, responsible gaming, casino user experience, player’s comment, other products of casino, conclusion, faq section, who owns spin casino?, what kinds of games can i play at spin casino?, what kinds of payment options do i have for making a deposit?, who is spin casino licensed by?, what kind of bonus can i expect to get at spin casino?, about the author]spin casino review 2022 [welcome bonus c$1000 - canada][spin casino, slots are some of the most popular games not just in regular casinos – but in online casinos, as well, 100% deposit match bonus up to $400, 100% match up to $300, $1,000 for you free play on the games at spin casino, suffice it to be aware that the gaming platform at spin casino is excellent by all standards., evolution gaming, section and sports bettors are typically delighted to bet here, as well., the live dealer experience is a vital piece of the entire casino spin experience., casino-now-canada.com , address, phone no., casino-now-canada.com][about us, canada english canada french schweiz deutsche suisse français, canada french, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, casinos, bonuses, slots, games, deposits, software, casinonow, , casino reviews, , spin casino, fully licensed and legit online casino – owned by the palace group, some of the best games made by reputable developer microgaming, big casino bonuses especially for the new players, , , , , , , , , , , , , , general information of online casino, advantages and disadvantages, bonus offers, loyalty and vip program, security & fairness – licensed & legit, how to start in spin casino, mobile casino, casino games & platforms, deposits and withdrawals options, customer support – friendly and forthcoming, responsible gaming, casino user experience, other products of casino, conclusion, faq section, fully licensed and legit online casino – owned by the palace group., some of the best games made by reputable developer microgaming., big casino bonuses especially for the new players., there is an entire sports betting platform that players can look forward to using at spin casino., fully licensed and legit online casino – owned by the palace group., some of the best games made by reputable developer microgaming., big casino bonuses especially for the new players., there is an entire sports betting platform that players can look forward to using at spin casino., bronze,, silver,, gold,, platinum,, diamond, and, privé., visit the official website of spin casino,, open the main menu by clicking the three parallel horizontal lines at the left corner of the homepage,, click the “register” button,, write all the information that’s required in the appropriate fields,, log into your account after you have created it,, go to the cashier page and deposit some money., slots, including classic 5 reel slots and more modern variants,, video poker,, roulette,, blackjack,, baccarat,, live dealer options., live blackjack, live craps, baccarat live, find your best boku microgaming payforit paysafecard visa real money casinos, boku, microgaming, payforit, paysafecard, visa, real money casinos, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, casino games online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots roulette blackjack live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, online slots video slots classic slots 3d slots, video slots, classic slots, 3d slots, roulette, blackjack, live casino live 3 сard poker live blackjack live roulette live holdem live baccarat, live 3 сard poker, live blackjack, live roulette, live holdem, live baccarat, deposits boku payforit paysafecard visa ukash zimpler neteller entropay, boku, payforit, paysafecard, visa, ukash, zimpler, neteller, entropay, mobile casinos android casino iphone casino ipad casino, android casino, iphone casino, ipad casino, guides gambling regulation territories saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia alberta ontario quebec atlantic provinces, gambling regulation, territories, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, alberta, ontario, quebec, atlantic provinces, canada english canada french schweiz deutsche suisse français, canada french, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, about us james taylor privacy policy, james taylor, privacy policy, casino reviews playamo casino cookie casino woo casino casino cruise spin casino, playamo casino, cookie casino, woo casino, casino cruise, spin casino, gambling regulation saskatchewan manitoba british columbia nova scotia, saskatchewan, manitoba, british columbia, nova scotia, best of real money casinos best payout new casino, real money casinos, best payout, new casino]