[full screen ahead., learn more, our largest display yet., heavy on features. light on price., learn more, +6 more, swimproof1, most crack-resistant front crystal, certified ip6x dust resistant1, always-on retina display nearly 20% larger than apple watch se, over 50% larger than series 3, blood oxygen app2, ecg app3, high and low heart rate notifications, irregular heart rhythm notification4, emergency sos5, international emergency calling6, fall detection, cellular available7, swimproof1,  ,  , retina display over 30% larger than series 3,  ,  , high and low heart rate notifications, irregular heart rhythm notification4, emergency sos5, international emergency calling6, fall detection, cellular available7, swimproof1,  ,  , retina display,  ,  , high and low heart rate notifications, irregular heart rhythm notification4, emergency sos5,  ,  ,  , compare all models, it's the ultimate device for a healthy life., learn more, a look inward. a leap forward., see what’s new, explore all airpods models and find the best ones for you., learn more, bundle four apple services. and enjoy more for less., try it free8, learn more, over 90 million songs. start listening for free today., , see how to close your activity rings on apple watch, now with a healthy dose of updates., learn more][apple watch, apple watch series 7, over 50% more screen area than series 3., apple watch se, which apple watch is right for you?, apple watch series 7, apple watch se, apple watch series 3, why apple watch, watchos 8, apple watch essentials, magic runs in the family., get more out of apple watch, apple one, apple music, three rings. one goal., health app, apple footer, learn, services, account, for business, apple values, about apple]watch - apple[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, apple, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, support, where to buy, , apple watch series 7, apple watch se, apple watch series 3, apple watch nike, compare, airpods, watchos, try it free*, learn more, apple watch series 7, apple watch se, and apple watch series 3 have a water resistance rating of 50 meters under iso standard 22810:2010. this means that they may be used for shallow-water activities like swimming in a pool or ocean. however, they should not be used for scuba diving, waterskiing, or other activities involving high-velocity water or submersion below shallow depth. series 7 is also rated ip6x dust resistant., blood oxygen app measurements are not intended for medical use, including self-diagnosis or consultation with a doctor, and are only designed for general fitness and wellness purposes., the ecg app is available on apple watch series 4 and later (not including apple watch se) with the latest version of ios and watchos. see apple.com/lae/watch for compatibility details. ecg is not intended for use by people under 22 years old. with the ecg app, apple watch is capable of generating an ecg similar to a single-lead electrocardiogram., irregular rhythm notification requires the latest version of watchos and ios. it is not intended for use by people under 22 years old or those who have been previously diagnosed with atrial fibrillation (afib)., apple watch series 7 (gps + cellular) and apple watch se (gps + cellular) can use a cellular connection for emergency sos. to use emergency sos on an apple watch without cellular, your iphone needs to be nearby. if your iphone isn’t nearby, your apple watch needs to be connected to a known wi-fi network and you must set up wi-fi calling., the international emergency calling feature requires an apple watch series 7 (gps + cellular) or apple watch se (gps + cellular) model. for a list of supported countries and regions, see apple.com/lae/watchos/feature-availability., wireless service plan required for cellular service. contact your service provider for more details. connection may vary based on network availability. international roaming is not supported. check apple.com/lae/watch/cellular for participating wireless carriers and eligibility. see support.apple.com/en-lamr/ht207578 for additional setup instructions., the apple one free trial includes only services that you are not currently using through a free trial or a subscription. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., * individual plan is $5.99/month after free trial for new subscribers. plan auto-renews until canceled. terms apply. pricing shown in usd and may vary by country. in peru the student plan is s/10.90 per month, the individual plan is s/20.90 per month and the family plan is s/31.90 per month. in argentina the student plan is usd $1.99 per month, the individual plan is usd $2.99 per month and the family plan is usd $4.99 per month., apple watch requires an iphone 6s or later with the latest ios version., features are subject to change. some features, applications, and services may not be available in all regions or all languages. view complete list., bands subject to availability., apple watch (gps + cellular) is available in argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, dominican republic, ecuador, mexico, peru, and puerto rico with specific carriers plans. wireless service plan required for cellular service. cellular capability depends on your plan and carrier. apple watch and iphone service provider must be the same. not all service providers support enterprise accounts; check with your employer and service provider. roaming is not available outside your carrier network coverage area. contact your service provider for more details. check apple.com/lae/watch/cellular for participating wireless carriers and eligibility., watch, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, ipod touch, airtag, apple music, apple tv+, apple arcade, icloud, apple one, apple books, apple podcasts, app store, manage your apple id, icloud.com, apple and business, accessibility, environment, privacy, career opportunities, investors, ethics & compliance, events]