[a team of historians have been trying to solve some historical "cold cases" -- old crimes in which the guilty ones walked, and even more insidious crimes where a whole village may have been complicit. there are other mysteries too, about unusual cases from the viking age to the klondike gold rush., français, the corpse of a young girl was found in a quiet quebec village in 1920. what is the story behind this tragic case and why does it still haunt the collective memory of the québécois?, use archaeological, historical, climatic and environmental clues with a new 3-d reconstruction to solve one of the most intriguing mysteries in world history: where did europe first meet america?, when montreal caught fire in april 1734, suspicion fell on a black slave called marie angéalique. but did she really start the fire?, on september 8th, 1863 a stranger was found on the beach of sandy cove in nova scotia, alive but with no legs and unable to speak. who was this "mystery man"?, as dawn broke on april 30, 1864, some 25 tsilhqot'in men surprised the sleeping camp of a crew building a road to the cariboo gold mines, killing fourteen. was this war?, when three black men were murdered in the space of 18 months around 1868 on bucolic salt spring island in bc, alarm bells went off. an aboriginal man was hanged, but was he guilty?, for a century, controversy has swirled around the question of who deserves credit for the discovery that set off the greatest gold rush in the history of the world. you be the judge!, who killed ada redpath and her son in their montreal mansion in 1901? find out what really happened as you look into the lives of the rich and famous in their elite neighbourhood., investigate the mysterious death of artist tom thomson. was his drowning accidental?, in 1880 the donnelly farm in ontario was burned to the ground and five family members were murdered. no one was ever found guilty of the crimes despite considerable evidence. why?, an explosion on a train killed the leader of the pacifist doukhobor religious community in castlegar, bc in 1924. investigate the many theories about who did it. accident or murder?, what would persuade the canadian ambassador to egypt to jump from a cairo building in 1957?, how and why did franklin's expedition flounder where inuit had thrived for many years?][we need your help!we need your help!, featured mystery, quick access, site features, aurore! the mystery of the martyred child, where is vinland?, torture and the truth: angélique and the burning of montreal, jerome: the mystery man of baie sainte-marie, we do not know his name: klatsassin and the chilcotin war, who killed william robinson? race, justice and settling the land, who discovered klondike gold?, the redpath mansion mystery, death on a painted lake: the tom thomson tragedy, heaven and hell on earth: the massacre of the "black" donnellys, explosion on the kettle valley line: the death of peter verigin, death of a diplomat: herbert norman & the cold war, the franklin mystery: life and death in the arctic]great unsolved mysteries in canadian history[][mysteries, teachers, about us, reviews, news, new - statues are good to think with, check out our teachers' guides, flash introductions to mysteries, web quest style mysteryquests, curriculum connections, newsletter, , , , , , , , , , , , , , mysteries |, teachers |, about us |, reviews |, news |, terms of use |, becoming a historian, , ]