[oh. so. pro., check back later for availability of alpine green., view iphone 13 pro in ar, your new superpower., check back later for availability of green., view iphone 13 in ar, love the power. love the price., check back later for availability, view iphone se in ar, the ultimate iphone., learn more, view in ar, all-screen oled display1 with promotion, pro camera system, telephoto, wide, ultra wide, a15 bionic chip, fastest chip in a smartphone, 5g capable2, up to 28 hours video playback3, face id, a total powerhouse., learn more, view in ar, all-screen oled display1, advanced dual‑camera system, wide, ultra wide, a15 bionic chip, faster than the competition, 5g capable2, up to 19 hours video playback3, face id, as amazing as ever., learn more, view in ar, all-screen oled display1, dual‑camera system, wide, ultra wide, a14 bionic chip, 5g capable2, up to 17 hours video playback3, face id, lots to love. less to spend., learn more, view in ar, lcd display, single-camera system, wide, a15 bionic chip, 4‑core gpu, 5g capable2, up to 13 hours video playback3, touch id, snap on a magnetic case, wallet, or both. and get faster wireless charging., attach one to your keys. put another in your backpack. if they’re misplaced, just use the find my app., explore all airpods models and find the best ones for you., in touch. in the moment., learn moreabout ios 15, what you share should be up to you., bundle up to four apple services. and enjoy more for less., get 3 months of apple tv+ free when you buy an iphone., try it free5, learn more, get 3 months of apple arcade free when you buy an iphone., over 90 million songs. start listening for free today.][iphone, iphone 13 pro, see it from every angle., iphone 13, see it from every angle., iphone se, take it for a spin., which iphone is right for you?, new iphone 13 pro, new iphone 13, iphone 12, iphone se, featured accessories, magsafe, airtag, airpods, what makes an iphone an iphone?, ios 15, switching to iphone is super simple., privacy, get more out of your iphone., apple one, apple tv plus, apple arcade, apple music, upgrade to start your free trial., apple footer, learn, services, account, for business, apple values, about apple]iphone - apple[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, apple, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, support, where to buy, , iphone 13 pro new, iphone 13 new, iphone se new, iphone 12, iphone 11, compare, airpods, airtag, ios 15, shop iphone, learn more, new alpine green, silver, gold, graphite, sierra blue, learn more, new green, pink, blue, midnight, starlight, (product)red, learn more, midnight, starlight, (product)red, compare all iphone models, shop iphone, learn more, learn more, try it free4, learn more, try it free6, learn more, try it free7, learn more, get the latest ios, get the latest ipados, get the latest macos, get the latest tvos, the display has rounded corners that follow a beautiful curved design, and these corners are within a standard rectangle. when measured as a standard rectangular shape, the screen is 5.42 inches (iphone 13 mini), 6.06 inches (iphone 13, iphone 13 pro), 6.68 inches (iphone 13 pro max), 5.42 inches (iphone 12 mini), or 6.06 inches (iphone 12, iphone 11) diagonally. actual viewable area is less., data plan required. 5g, gigabit lte, volte, and wi-fi calling are available in select markets and through select carriers. speeds are based on theoretical throughput and vary based on site conditions and carrier. for details on 5g and lte support, contact your carrier and see apple.com/lae/iphone/cellular., all battery claims depend on the cellular network, location, signal strength, feature configuration, usage, and many other factors; actual results will vary. battery has limited recharge cycles and may eventually need to be replaced. battery life and charge cycles vary by use and settings. battery tests are conducted using specific iphone units. see apple.com/lae/batteries and apple.com/iphone/compare for more information., the apple one free trial includes only services that you are not currently using through a free trial or a subscription. plan automatically renews after trial until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., $4.99/month after free trial. one subscription per family sharing group. offer good for 3 months after eligible device activation. plan automatically renews until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply. prices are quoted in us dollars and may vary by country. an international credit card may be required to complete the subscription., $4.99/month after free trial. one subscription per family sharing group. offer good for 3 months after eligible device activation. plan automatically renews until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply. prices are quoted in us dollars and may vary by country. an international credit card may be required to complete the subscription., individual plan is $5.99/month after free trial for new subscribers. plan auto-renews until canceled. terms apply. pricing shown in usd and may vary by country. in peru the student plan is s/10.90 per month, the individual plan is s/20.90 per month and the family plan is s/31.90 per month. in argentina the student plan is usd $1.99 per month, the individual plan is usd $2.99 per month and the family plan is usd $4.99 per month., text contained in the billie eilish, the englishman at the moulin rouge, lavender, golden retriever and muscari wikipedia entries is available under the creative commons attribution-sharealike license at http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0. wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the wikimedia foundation, inc., a nonprofit organization., some features may not be available for all countries or all areas. view complete list., iphone, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, ipod touch, airtag, apple music, apple tv+, apple arcade, icloud, apple one, apple books, apple podcasts, app store, manage your apple id, icloud.com, apple and business, accessibility, environment, privacy, career opportunities, investors, ethics & compliance, events]