[privacy is a fundamental human right. at apple, it’s also one of our core values. your devices are important to so many parts of your life. what you share from those experiences, and who you share it with, should be up to you. we design apple products to protect your privacy and give you control over your information. it’s not always easy. but that’s the kind of innovation we believe in., view (pdf), learn more about icloud+, view (pdf) watch the film, intelligent tracking prevention helps stop advertisers that follow you from site to site., some websites allow hundreds of different data collection companies to watch you, build a profile of you, and serve you ads as you browse the web. intelligent tracking prevention in safari uses on-device machine learning to help block those trackers. and you can get a snapshot of all the cross-site trackers safari is blocking by visiting your privacy report in the safari toolbar., advertisers can also create a “fingerprint” of your device to target you based on characteristics like your browser configuration, and fonts and plug-ins you’ve installed. to help prevent this, safari has built-in fingerprinting defense, which shares a simplified system profile with websites you visit. making it even more difficult for data companies to identify you., the maps app doesn’t associate your data with your apple id, and apple doesn’t keep a history of where you’ve been., where you go says a lot about you. maps delivers a great experience without apple knowing which stores, neighborhoods, or clinics you visit. and because maps doesn’t include a sign-in, where you go isn’t associated with your apple id at all., personalized features, like locating your parked car, are created right on your device. data used to improve navigation, such as routes and search terms, is not associated with your identity. instead, that information is based on random identifiers that are constantly changing., the photos app uses machine learning to organize photos right on your device. so you don’t need to share them with apple or anyone else., your photo and video albums are full of precious moments, friends, and your favorite things. apple devices are designed to give you control over those memories., photos is also designed so that the face recognition and scene and object detection — which power features like for you, memories, sharing suggestions, and the people album — happen on device instead of in the cloud. in fact, the a13 and a14 bionic chips perform over 100 billion operations per photo to recognize faces and places without ever leaving your device. and when apps request access to your photos, you can share just the images you want — not your entire library., apple can’t read your imessages while they’re being sent between you and the person you’re texting., from inside jokes to invitations, a lot of life happens in text and video chats. every blue-bubble message, picture, animoji, and video is encrypted while being sent between devices., smart suggestions in messages, like pulling up photos to send based on who you’re messaging, are all done on your device., your apple id isn’t connected to siri, and the audio of your requests is now processed entirely on your device by default., siri was designed from the beginning to learn your preferences without sharing your identity with apple or anyone else. you don’t sign in with your apple id to use siri, and the audio of your requests is processed entirely on your iphone thanks to the power of the apple neural engine., when apple does process or store data on our servers, it’s associated with a random identifier — a long string of letters and numbers. that data is used only to improve siri, and we never share or sell it. apple doesn’t retain audio of your requests unless you choose to share it with us to improve siri., apple news delivers content based on your interests, but it isn’t connected to your identity. so apple doesn’t know what you’ve read., many news sources keep track of your identity and create a profile of you. apple news delivers personalized content without knowing who you are. the content you read is associated with a random identifier, not your apple id., you get editor-curated content and a personalized newsfeed so you can stay up to date with the latest news and stories. and because apple news uses machine learning, the more you use it, the better your app gets to know what you like — without apple ever knowing what you’re into., your credit and debit card numbers are hidden from apple, and apple doesn’t keep transaction information that can be tied back to you., what you buy, where you bought it, and how much you paid is sensitive information. apple doesn’t store, sell, or use that information., apple doesn’t store your credit or debit card numbers or share them with merchants. instead, a unique device account number is created every time you add a card to apple pay. and with apple card, your spending history is generated right on your iphone, so apple doesn’t have it., you control which information goes into the health app and who you share it with., from your heart rate to your menstrual cycle, apps and devices for your health can give you insight into some of your most personal details. with the health app, you’re in charge of what information you’d like to include, what not to, and who has access to it., when you do want to securely share your health data from the health app with your doctors, they’ll see the data you shared in a dashboard in the provider’s health records system., all of your data is encrypted and only accessible with your passcode, touch id, or face id. so however you use the health app, you’re always in control of your data., easy-to-read privacy nutrition labels on the app store help you choose apps based on how they use your data and whether they track you., every one of the more than 1.8 million apps on the app store is required to follow strict privacy guidelines and report how it uses your data. and every app is rigorously reviewed by a team of experts at apple., when you’re checking out an app, you’ll see its privacy nutrition label to help you decide if it works for you. apps you choose to download need your permission to access information like your photos or location — and you can always change your mind about what you share. ios 14.5 and ipados 14.5 or later require developers to get your permission before tracking your activity across other companies’ apps and websites for ads or data brokers.][privacy, latest from apple on privacy., apple’s layers of security and app store protections keep you in control of your data and help shield you from malware., icloud+ adds new protection to your online activities with hide my email, icloud private relay, and more., app tracking transparency lets you control which apps are allowed to track your activity., everyday apps. designed for your privacy., safari throws trackers off your trail., safari, maps makes your location history, history., maps, photos lets you choose who has the full picture., photos, messages are only seen by who you send them to., messages, siri learns what you need. not who you are., siri, apple news leaves what you read off the record., apple news, wallet and apple pay help hide what you buy., wallet and apple pay, health keeps your records under wraps., health, app store shows you what’s in store for your data., app store, learn more about privacy at apple., apple footer, shop and learn, services, account, apple store, for business, for education, for healthcare, for government, apple values, about apple]privacy - apple[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, overview, features, control, labels, transparency report, privacy policy, apple’s layers of security and app store protections keep you in control of your data and help shield you from malware. view (pdf), icloud+ adds new protection to your online activities with hide my email, icloud private relay, and more. learn more about icloud+, app tracking transparency lets you control which apps are allowed to track your activity. view (pdf) watch the film, , , review privacy features, control what you share, see how apps from apple handle your data, privacy, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, ipod touch, airtag, accessories, gift cards, apple music, apple tv+, apple fitness+, apple news+, apple arcade, icloud, apple one, apple card, apple books, apple podcasts, app store, manage your apple id, apple store account, icloud.com, find a store, genius bar, today at apple, apple camp, apple store app, refurbished and clearance, financing, apple trade in, order status, shopping help, apple and business, shop for business, apple and education, shop for k-12, shop for college, apple in healthcare, health on apple watch, health records on iphone, shop for government, shop for veterans and military, accessibility, education, environment, inclusion and diversity, privacy, racial equity and justice, supplier responsibility, newsroom, apple leadership, career opportunities, investors, ethics & compliance, events, contact apple]