[go back: virtual middle school library home / web sites for students menu /social studies menu/ world history, world history menu: general world history | ancient history | asian history | africa | the middle ages | the renaissance and reformation | 1700 - the present | individual countries: great britain, this site is maintained by linda bertland, retired school librarian. please address any comments, additions, or corrections to info@sldirectory.com.][world history, general history, ancient history, archaeology resources, prehistoric cultures, ancient egypt, ancient near east, ancient greece, ancient rome, central america, south america, asia, africa, the middle ages, renaissance and reformation, modern world history: 1700 - the present, history of great britain]world history for middle school students[][history world - articles, timelines, and links to related web sites., periodical historic atlas of europe - maps of europe from the year 1 to the year 20000. the maps are for 100 year intervals., history for kids - from britain. history and games., interactive history - animations, games, videos, virtual tours, and quizzes from the british broadcasting corporation., world history games - from the ancient world to the modern age., a comparative chronology of money - from ancient to modern times. brief descriptions of the uses of money throughout the ages. there are no pictures., archaeology - a good guide to finding more information from 42explore., archaeology in the news, archaeology magazine - news and articles about archaeology., prehistoric man - links to topics such as prehistoric art and prehistoric daily life., the evolution of man - from the bbc., ancient egypt - a nice introduction to ancient egypt with pictures, explanations, stories, and games. maybe not the place to go if you need to write a really long report., ancient egypt - from dk findout., guardian's ancient egypt kid connection - information about gods, mummies, and pyramids. there are also games, quizzes, and things to make., pyramids: the inside story - explore the inside of a pyramid and find out how they were built., mesopotamia - excellent site from the british museum. it has information about the cultures of assyria, babylon and sumer., ancient mesopotamia - information and lots of pictures from the university of chicago., the hittes - an ancient people who lived from 1600 to 1200 bce., canaan and ancient israel - information about the land and the people from the university of pennsylvania museum., ancient greece - a good introduction to ancient greece. from the british museum., ancient greece - from bbc schools., the iliad - every greek child knew this story about a war between the greeks and the trojans. you can read the story here, the mysterious etruscans - these people lived on the italian peninsula before the romans., classics unveiled - this site has sections on roman history and roman life. there is also a section on roman mythology. this site was written by students at the york mills c. i. in ontario, canada., the romans - information about ancient rome. this site also has some videos of ancient roman sites., pompeii: window on ancient rome - see pompeii in this youtube video., roman emperors - biographies of the emperors., the romans in britain - information about roman life, the roman army, and a good timeline., aztec history - lots and lots of information about the aztecs., a timeline of mexican history, who were the maya - by robert sharer. an introduction and a very good timeline. from the university of pennsylvania museum of archaeology and anthropology., mayan kids - an introduction to the ancient maya., the mesoamerican ball game - a very dangerous sport., the mayan ball game - a youtube video., the nazca lines - prehistoric lines in the deserts of peru. nobody knows who made them or why they were made, the moche - early people of peru who made really beautiful pottery. this site is from the khan academy, the incas - from dk findout., the conquistadors - europeans who conquered the native people of central and south america. from dk findout., history of china - this site has a timeline in addition to information on chinese history., ancient china - a great site by the british museum., the mongols in world history - the world of genghis khan and marco polo., ancient india - this is a good introduction to the geography, culture, and religions of early india. this web site is by the british museum., the ancient indus valley - the harappan culture of india and pakistan., the history of viet nam, the history of thailand, the history of cambodia - from encyclopaedia britannica., the lost city of angkor wat - a video from national geographic about this cambodian city., the history of korea, ancient africa for kids, the story of africa - from very earliest time until the present. by bbc, ancient africa for kids - a youtube video about life in ancient africa., kingdoms of ancient and medieval africa - you will find links to other sites. this is from boston university., mostly medieval: exploring the middle ages - information about calendars, heraldry, ballads and medicine., the middle ages for kids - from ducksters., what it was like to live in the middle ages, the black death - a great plague which killed many people in europe starting in 1348., medieval warfare - lots of good pictures of arms and armor., the early islamic world - from ducksters., the labyrinth - search for information about the middle ages., the vikings - viking raiders made life very difficult in the middle ages., the renaissance - the development of trade, the exploration of the world, and an explosive growth of art., the renaissance - a good introduction from kids discover., the galileo project - information about the man and his world., renaissance art in italy - this page has lots of links. look at some of the great works of art by michelangelo, raphael, and titian., leonardo da vinci - artist, scientist and inventor., michelangelo - a great artist of the italian renaissance., martin luther - the life of the monk who started the protestant reformation., tudor history - england in the period between 1485 and 1603. there are biographies, and articles about life in tudor times. there is also a list of movies which take place during tudor times., queen elizabeth i - biography and history of events during her reign., 1700 - 1799 - a chronology of events from infoplease., the seven years war - 1756 - 1763. this was really a world war. in the american colonies it was called the french and indian war., james watt - his invention of the steam engine would lead to the industrial revolution., the chateau of versailles - take a tour of this beautiful home of french royalty., 1800 - 1899 - a chronology of events from infoplease., simon bolivar - the liberator of several south american countries., the industrial revolution - changed how the world worked and traveled., queen victoria - victoria would be queen of england from 1829 - 1901. her country would become one of the most powerful countries in the world., the crimean war - 1853 - 1856. england, turkey, france and sardinia were fighting russia., the 20th century - year by year - events for each year of the century plus timelines and news of disasters, entertainment and sports., trenches on the web - a history of world war i., the russian revolution - a short description of the revolution of 1917., world war ii - from the bbc., the vietnam war - timeline, events and photos., a short history of the internet - the development of the internet was a world changing event., the gulf war - war with iraq in 1990 - 1991., the iraq timeline - from the 1920's to the present., the islamic state of iraq and levant - known as isis. this information is from wikipedia., the kings and queens of england and britain, bbc history - lots on british history. by the british broadcasting company., exhibitions of british history - important events in history. by the british national archives., early british kingdoms for kids - britain in the middle ages.]