[control interest-based advertising on apps on your mobile device. california residents can submit requests to opt out of the sale of personal information under the california consumer privacy act (ccpa). appchoices gives you transparency with participating companies, and lets you limit their collection of cross-app data for interest-based ads. brought to you by the digital advertising alliance, and backed up by the daa’s independent accountability program, appchoices lets you opt out from interest-based advertising with a particular company, or “choose all companies” with one simple click. did you know that some of the ads you receive in apps are customized based on predictions about your interests generated from your app usage? this is called interest-based advertising (iba). appchoices gives you choices about whether you receive this type of advertising that is based on cross-app data collected over time across different apps and devices.  to opt out your device id out of iba from a particular company, simply navigate to device id-based choice tool and set the switch next to the company’s logo from “”on” to “off”. appchoices lets you decide which, if any, participating companies deliver interest-based advertising to your device. using the new token id-based choice (beta) tool, you can opt out or revoke having your data collected or used for iba linked to the email address you provide. when it comes to ads in your apps based on your interests, it’s your choice. california residents may also use appchoices to submit requests to opt out from the sale of personal information under the ccpa for this device for some or all of the participating companies. to request an opt out for a particular company, set the status button located next to the company's logo to "send." select "ca opt out send all" to opt out from all the listed companies. to learn more about a particular company's policies, click on its logo. appchoices también está disponible en español. solo establece la configuración al idioma español. you may still receive other types of advertising in your apps from participating daa companies, and these companies (and other apps) may still collect information for other purposes consistent with the daa principles. you can learn more about these principles and the daa’s enforcement and accountability program by visiting www.aboutads.info/enforcement. the ccpa opt outs provided through this tool apply to the sale of personal information by participating companies. you may still receive advertisements that do not involve the sale of personal information subject to the ccpa. v 2.1, version 2.1.3, added new opt-out feature for consumer to opt-out their email id, referred to as "token-based choice" included navigation link to token-based choice faq. added captcha for consumer to verify their choices., 260 ratings, i downloaded this app to opt out of targeted advertising. there are two lists available: one for ccpa advertisers and another called iba providers. if your outside ca, the ccpa is irrelevant, so i understand, which is my case. so, the iba is the list i care about. both list of advertisers popped up just fine and i see very clearly those voyeurs jacking my info on the dl and bombing me relentlessly me with their crap. however, while i can see them, i can do nothing about it. the supposed option to turn them “off” is a myth. clicking the “on” option merely takes me to a page that provides the miscreants website and company info. so, basically, i get to opt out of nothing., when i opened the app and followed what seemed intuitive to opt out of one or all advertisers, i didn’t receive any feedback indicating the settings changed. at that point i (foolishly?) decided to read the instructions. it instructs to “simply move the switch from on to off next to the advertising company you wish to opt out.” in my case, tapping the “digital switch” changes selection from on to send, but nothing ever activates or verified anything being sent. i then went to the reviews to see if i am the only one having this issue, which would indicate to me that the problem is me and not with the app. i came upon a review written 3 yrs ago by {batman} in which he writes, “...when you view the list of ad companies, and try and follow the instructions to opt out, the opt out button doesn't work. it just does nothing.” that states perfectly, my experience today as well. so much has changed in this world over the past 3 years, but this app becoming functional is not one of them., just a reminder because lots of people are stupid and don’t read. this will not disable ads. this is only to opt out of personalized ads. this will stop advertising companies from tracking your web/app usage and hitting you with ads targeted toward your interests. instead you will be blasted with general ads not specifically aimed at you or your interests. the only reason i gave it one star. is because the daa is garbage and ads are pointless altogether. just download the app opt out for all then delete it. all set! if you don’t want to see ads anymore get adblock. i would recommend doing both. if you use only adblockers your app/internet usage is still tracked and sent back to the daa but you just won’t see the personal ads they send you. so do both. then they cant steal your info or hit you with ads. but seriously ads are garbage and they don’t work. if we want your product we will buy it. but spamming me with ads does the opposite. i won’t buy your garbage, the developer, digital advertising alliance, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be used to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies:, the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, spanish, opswat mobile app, tls inspector, google smart lock, screenwise meter, zenkey powered by t-mobile, mozilla vpn - secure & private][appchoices 4+, digital advertising alliance, designed for ipad, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, frustrating, ditto to { batman }’s review of 3 yrs ago; doesn’t work!, the app works the way it was designed, app privacy, data used to track you, data not linked to you, information, you might also like]‎appchoices on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 2.4 • 260 ratings, 2.4 • 260 ratings, free, free, ipad, iphone, , , , location, location, identifiers, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]