[united kingdom, , schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , deutschland, , canada, english, canada, français, nederland, , advertiser disclosure, readers are our top priority, and we always try to provide the best casino experience. it’s free for our visitors., at casinonow uk, we earn money through our affiliate programs. we use these programs to help fund and maintain the website, but all information at casinonow uk is independently prepared, and written without income in mind. our partners work with us to help us earn money, but it does not mean we adjust our recommendations, or our opinions based on this assistance., our rating is always independent, and that will never change. our partners help us, but we don’t write falsely on any project, review, or advice article found on casinonow uk., may 11, 2021, 27 min read, our primary aim is to make sure that you can enjoy the safest gaming experience without any break in consistency. if we believe that a casino is very much to the highest standard, we’ll strike up a partnership. however, our partnership in no way plays a role in constructing or deciding our opinions., expertenbewertung, 5 / 5, software rating, our assessment is based of an integrated approach and contains many criteria. to evaluate the online casino software, we check its reliability and safety, convenience, popularity in a given country and the number of games on offer. we also read player reviews about each specific software company, producers of online casino games., since 1996, netent casinos have been some of the most popular casinos in the gaming industry both offline and online. netent; a brand abbreviated from ‘net entertainment’, is one of the most sought out casino game software providers in the igaming industry in 2022. the developer has always been a big name in the gambling world, but since the release of the famous starburst slot machine in 2013 the firm has witnessed enhanced growth and become an even more reputable brand in the gambling sector., website, founded, 1996, specialization, headquarters, sweden, max jackpot, 20,000x, min/max deposit, £10 – £10000, uk, 5.0/5, 100% up to £200, bonusbedingungen, #ad new customers only. opt-in required. 1st deposit bonus 100% up to £200. 2nd deposit bonus 50% up to £200, 3rd deposit bonus 25% up to £200, 4th deposit bonus 25% up to £200. min deposit £10. 40x wagering, 30 days to complete wagering, game weighting and game restrictions apply. max bet with bonus funds £5. max withdrawal from bonus funds is £2000. neteller and skrill excluded. eligibility restrictions apply, cash balance can be withdrawn at any time. full bonus terms., payout rate, 0%, payout time, 1-5 days, min/max deposit, £10 – £5000, payment methods(3), uk, 5.0/5, £1500 + 100 fs, payout rate, 97%, payout time, 1-7 days, min/max deposit, £20 – no limit, payment methods(6), uk, 5.0/5, £100 + 50 fs, payout rate, 92%, payout time, 3-5 days, min/max deposit, £10 – £5000, payment methods(6), uk, 5.0/5, 100% up to £100, payout rate, 97%, payout time, 2-4 days, min/max deposit, £10 – £5000, payment methods(7), uk, 4.9/5, £400 + 100 fs, payout rate, 98%, payout time, 1-3 days, min/max deposit, £10 – £10000, payment methods(6), you can play free slot machines by netent at any time without any restrictions in the bets or winnings. test the best slot machines with casinonow and make sure that software developer have not only taken care of graphics or performance. you will for sure feel entertainment, excitement, pleasant atmosphere and the ocean of joy playing in the bright and colourful slot machines!, 4.9 / 5, 4.9 / 5, 4.9 / 5, 4.5 / 5, 4.3 / 5, 4.8 / 5, 3.3 / 5, 4 / 5, 4.6 / 5, 4.8 / 5, 4.8 / 5, 4.6 / 5, netent casino and slots games come in all shapes and sizes and feature some of the most breathtaking graphics of any game provider in the industry. one of the great things about netent games is that they come packed with excitingly bright colours and high quality graphics, showing just how much time has been invested in to each and every individual title., games from netent can be played in two modes: freeplay or real money mode. freeplay, also known as demo mode, is a viable option for newcomers to gambling as well as more experienced players who want to try out a particular game first, before wagering any real money. both modes on all netent games are available at the casinonow portal., over the last twenty years, netent has developed over 300 different casino and slot games including video poker, live dealer and scratch cards. as casinonow, we have extensively reviewed and rated every netent game that has been released and are constantly watching for new titles from their talented team. below is a list of the top 5 games from netent that are popular with british players in 2022:, reels, 5, paylines, 10, rtp, 96.01, 4.9 / 5, starburst slot has been netent’s most popular slot machine game since its release in 2013. this 5 reel slot with 10 paylines from netent features customisable game-play and slick graphics with gemstone symbols. players can adjust their stake by changing the game level from 1 to 10 and selecting a coin value that suits their budget. starburst is famous for its free spins and re-spins bonus feature that can be triggered by a number of different combinations. the wild symbol is the starburst., reels, 5, paylines, 20, rtp, 96, 4.8 / 5, gonzo’s quest is a 5 reel, 20 payline slot game from netent and is recognised as a game with the best graphics in the slot machine world. the theme of the game is a 3d adventure as the player follows the main character: gonzo. among the symbols are various aztec / south american illustrations that can be combined to trigger the games’ features including avalanche multiplier and free fall. the wild is represented by a question mark coin., reels, 5, paylines, 243, rtp, 96.6, 4.7 / 5, twin spin slot is netent’s answer to a 243 paylines slot machine and has a rtp of 96.6%. the 5 reel slot has some unique features that won’t be found on any other game elsewhere, including twin reels! the twin reel feature starts with 2 reels joined together and can expand across 3 or 4 reels. the game consists of some classic feel slot symbols such as bar, bell, 7 symbol and cherry along with a slanted wild as the wild. a win is landed by matching the symbols on three or more adjacent reels., reels, 5, paylines, 9, rtp, 96.82, 4.7 / 5, dead or alive slot is a 9-payline netent slot machine with 5 reels and wild west theme. the game features free spins and sticky wilds along with scatters represented by double handgun and wilds are wanted posters. this slot game is packed with all things western from cowboy boots to sheriff badge symbols and sound-effects that tie in brilliantly with every in-game event., reels, 5, paylines, 243, rtp, 96.6, 4.7 / 5, alien robots is a 5 reel slot machine from netent that is part of the 243 payline series. the game allows a minimum coin size of 0.01 and features exciting cartoon style graphics with, as the title suggests; alien robot illustrations! wilds are represented by a robot alien character and scatters are beam me up spaceships., rtp, 99.00%, rtp, 98.90%, rtp, 98.00%, rtp, 97.60%, rtp, 97.50%, rtp, 97.30%, rtp, 97.20%, rtp, 97.10%, rtp, 97.00%, rtp, 97.00%, advantages, disadvantages, when you load a netent game for the first time, you instantly recognise the smooth logo, high quality graphics and seamless quick loading time. players are known to enjoy their gaming experience at netent casinos because of the time and effort invested in to each and every game by the development team. below we have listed the core points on why netent stands out from other gambling software providers:, with over 20 years of industry experience, it is no surprise to see that netent has over 300 games in its portfolio. games are categorised by type, including table games, live casino games and video slots. without a doubt the slot machines category is where netent stands out from the crowd. their selection of slots is rarely beaten on quantity combined with quality that each game title possesses. what’s more is, all games come in a variety of shapes and sizes including low/high volatility, rtp and betting limits from 0.01. popular games outside of the top 5 include: piggy riches, gold money frog, creature from the black lagoon and warlords., each netent game is carefully hand crafted and designed by an experienced and skilled team working behinds the scenes at hq. every game consists of an eye catching high quality logo that grabs the player and leaves a lasting impression. games are designed by gaming enthusiasts, so you are guaranteed to find illustrations that are bright, colourful and exciting, which keeps the fun factor flowing throughout the entire duration of game-play., undoubtedly, netent is known for its impressive slot machines. however, the swedish gaming juggernaut also offers a very good selection of other game topics, including: blackjack, roulette, baccarat, video poker, texas hold’em and live dealer games. netent’s live dealer games are all streamed in real time, hosted by a professional netent dealer and broadcast via higher quality video links that surpass the standards offered by other software providers. at casinonow, we enjoyed experiencing the multiple camera angles, fast game round times and in-game chat features available at netent casinos., netent is a professional company that showcases its class and professionalism within games. this is portrayed by each games user interface that is not only easy on the eye, but informative as well. whether the player is new or experienced in igaming, netent games are easy to follow and play, which is a primary factor in what makes them so fun for the player. each user can find the details they need from pay-table data and game rules to betting amount and in-game features., when a software provider states that digital entertainment is their passion, you know for sure you are going to be enlightened when you enter their world of gaming. netent utilise the latest technology and are constantly looking for ways to adapt their offerings to not only meet the rising demand by players, but to also set new revolutionary standards with 3d gaming, mobile technology and next generation ideas., netent is licensed by the uk gambling commission and has international branches with licences from the belgium gaming commission, the gibraltar gambling commission, the malta gaming authority, the romanian onjn and the spanish dgoj, as well as two permits from the us. most of these grant a business-to-business type 2 licence with englobe events based on matchbooks. with some of the most authoritative names in the igaming licencing industry, netent ensures that its players partake in safe and honest betting practices., netent software integrates in to each casino environment with a single solution. one universal api system offers access to all games under the netent brand. what’s more is, netent has a team of experts that personally supports and manages the software and its catalogue of games. product customisation is available behind the scenes so each of the netent casinos we list picks and chooses its own categories and filtering options., netent only operates its software on secure servers using ssl encryption that integrates seamlessly with each online casino. this means that player data and transactions are kept and processed securely at all times to provide each player with the peace of mind they expect from a reputable company., what’s more is, netent casinos offer a wide range of banking methods that work with all real money games so that players can deposit using debit card or for the more security conscious third party e-wallets, whereby no financial information is disclosed to the casino provider. furthermore, netent is a responsible gambling company and is licensed and regulated in each jurisdiction it operates in, including britain by the uk gambling commission., in 2022, mobile gaming is the future. whether a player is using a dedicated app or a mobile browser, it is fair to say that whatever the choice; mobile gaming is more popular than desktop gaming and general device usage has saw mobile take over the desktop usage. for this reason, netent offer a large portion of their games in mobile format via their netent touch brand, which is compatible on ios and android., as netent software integrates smoothly with online casino software and api, each online casino sets its own player bonuses for both new and existing customers. netent casinos are able to offer a variety of bonuses including: first deposit, no deposit, free spins and reload bonuses. in addition, each netent game comes with a variety of in-game bonus features such as free spins and cluster pays., if you have ever played a netent game, then you will already know why this software provider is a leader in what it does best. the stockholm based game provider is not only one of the longest serving and most respected brands in gambling, but it constantly improves its service and keeps up with market trends to ensure player demand is consistently met. here at casinonow we dig deep in to the pros and cons of netent casinos and the benefits surrounding their games., netent was established in the year 1996 by pontus lindwall, son of a gambling enthusiasts. the firm started developing games and laying the foundations to what has become one of the largest global gaming corporations of modern times. in the year 2000, the first netent casino was launched and various game titles were released., netent was founded., netent casino was launched., netent started delivering its casino module to real money customers., netent expands its business further internationally and started delivering its casino module to customers worldwide., netent obtained its malta gaming license., netent was floated on the stockholm stock exchange., netent received a category 2 license in alderney and also launched the famous gonzo’s quest game., netent launched its mobile games for the first time., netent developed its first ever html5 game., netent expanded in to the usa market., netent launched its mobile live casino., netent currently has offices in malta, sweden, gibraltar, poland, ukraine, the uk and usa. it also runs a fully customisable gaming solution called netent engage, which allows each online casino to customise its own reward promotions, meaning that each netent casino could be as unique as each player. for example, netent casinos are able to use netent engage to set rewards such as collect 100 expanding wilds on starburst slot and get 10 free spins on dazzle me slot., innovation in rng casino software at egr awards, innovation in rng casino software at egr awards, innovation in slot provision at egr awards, innovation in slot provision, innovation in mobile and mobile supplier of the year at egr awards, innovator of the year at iga awards, highly commended for live casino supplier of the year at egr awards and digital gaming innovation of the year at global gaming awards, slot provider of the year, innovation in mobile and mobile supplier of the year at egr awards, innovation in mobile and innovation in slot provision at egr awards, egr innovation in rng casino software, egr mobile supplier, egr rng casino supplier, casino platform supplier in the nordics at egr nordics and online casino supplier of the year at global gaming awards london, mobile product of the year at international gaming awards and egr north america platform of the year, netent specialises in online slots and it is in this gaming sector that you can deploy a strategy to increase your chances of winning. the first step to winning on a netent slot is to think long term, rather than short term. find a game that has a low volatility level but high rtp. these two factors generally mean that the slot machine game will pay out more frequently and return more money to the player on average. the result will be winning smaller amounts, but the wins will be more often than if you were playing a high volatility slot. if you stick with your strategy over a longer period, you may find that your land more winnings., over the last 10 years, netent games have paid out large sums of money both on desktop games and mobile. in 2018, a player landed a jackpot win of over five and a half million pounds on hall of gods mobile. in 2013, over fifteen million pounds was paid out on mega fortune slot and in 2015, mega fortune touch broke a new record and paid out £4.8million., netent casinos are some of the best in the business. at casinonow, we see hundreds of online casino sites every day, so in this section we thought we’d list a few tips for you to take on board when playing netent games that will maximise your playing experience:, almost all netent slots games have a rtp of over 96%. this is higher on average than many other casino software providers. there are a few exceptions, but the majority of games vary between 96% and 98% return to player. what’s more is, netent slots come with a volatility scale from low through to medium to high, which determines how frequent the game will pay out. low volatility may return more wins more often but of smaller amounts. high volatility may pay out less but may result in larger wins. the highest rtp of a netent game is blood suckers at 98% and lowest games include voodoo vibes at 94%, super lucky frog at 93% and mystery mansion and trolls both at 95.1%., netent games comes packed with abundance of features for casino and slot enthusiasts alike. one stand-out feature is that the majority of the major game titles from this software provider are available on any device of your choosing, be it mobile, tablet or desktop computer. this provides greater access to games more often, which means you can play netent games at various times of the day., at casinonow, we are experts at picking apart software developers and can see what makes a company sink or swim. netent never fails to impress and its list of features is comprehensive. with netent casinos, players have the joy of enjoying higher than average rtp on games, exclusive progressive slots, game themes you can’t find anywhere else, such as jumanji and scarface, and exciting in-game events like expanding wilds., netent casinos are some of the best in the business. it is rare for a player to be unhappy or dissatisfied with their playing experience at a netent casino. this software provider is a rock solid game developer that has cemented its reputation firmly in the middle to top end of the gaming scale. what’s more is, the company has laid the foundations to a long term team of professionals that love what they do. the love and passion that the netent team have really shows in every game they release., at casinonow, we are big fans of netent and we rarely speak to a slot enthusiast who dislikes any of their games. the firm is keen to progress and grow, which means they are constantly working behind the scenes to develop new games with exciting features. the great thing about netent is that they have taken all aspects of what makes a great casino game and incorporated each factor in to the development process. games come loaded with exciting features, outstanding graphics, smooth gameplay and more control to the player – putting them in the driving seat with how much they want to play and potentially win., the online casino industry is thriving in 2022 and the global audience is constantly growing. in light of the rapid growth, new game developers are consistently entering the market. the uk has some of the biggest and best software names in the industry in 2022 that give sweden’s netent a run for its money. you can browse other popular game developers on our website., progressive jackpot games from netent are all linked across the network and the jackpot increases in value every time a player spins the reels, which means every bet placed is added to the jackpot prize., yes. there are 3 types of free spins available at some netent casinos: first deposit free spins, no deposit free spins and in-game free spins that are activated with a slot machines bonus feature., netent offers a mobile ‘touch’ casino with a limited selection of mobile slots that work on both iphone (ios) and android smart-phones., the minimum amount for a first deposit bonus is £10 at most netent casinos., yes. the team behind the netent brand are constantly working to release new slot games regularly, along with some other casino games less frequently., netent integrates seamlessly with most online casino providers’ own api systems. so customers can use all of the major payment methods including debit card, paypal, neteller and other cash card / e-wallets, and start playing real money games within a few minutes of making a deposit., chief editor, emily campbell (professional name) is our go-to person, and she has served as our chief editor since 2018. educated at newcastle university, emily has worked in the marketing industry across the uk, helping various companies to gain traction and to build up quality, value-driven information aimed at readers., united kingdom, , schweiz, deutsche, suisse, français, österreich, , deutschland, , canada, english, canada, français, nederland, , you are in safe hands, our recommended casinos have been certified by, sign up for +350 free spins!, by providing us with your email, you confirm your desire to be subscribed to the casinonow uk newsletter. you must be over the age of 18 to subscribe to our newsletter. please confirm this, and that you’ve read all associated rules, cookie terms, and that you have accepted our privacy policy., casino-now.co.uk website is certified by, casinonow uk is a free casino portal set up to provide gamers with all the information they need to play with confidence and control. our main objective is to help you pick the right casino sites, and to give you quick information that you can break down with ease. we look to save you time, money, and stress by giving you information, reviews, and advice about major casinos, games, payment methods, and software developers. our goal is simple: to make sure you can play games with confidence that the service is exactly as was described., copyright © 2017-2020 casino-now.co.uk all rights reserved][a software guide to netent casinos for uk players in 2022, top netent casinos in the uk: full list 2022, the largest collection of free slots by netent in the uk, play netent casino games in freeplay or real money mode, netent’s top 5 games in the uk 2022, netent games & slots rtp list – highest & best rtp values, advantages & disadvantages of netent casinos, netent casino games experience, games selection, games design, games topic, games interface, games technologies, games licensing, casino integration, games safety & security, mobile gaming, game bonuses, netent software ins and outs, netent history, netent awards, did you know?, netent awards, netent games strategy, netent games: maximum winnings, best tips for netent casinos, netent games rtp, netent software features, netent conclusion, other casino software developers, netent casinos faq, why are netent progressive jackpots so popular?, are free spins available on netent games?, can i play all netent slots on my iphone?, what is the minimum deposit at a netent casino to claim a bonus?, does netent release new games?, what payment methods can i use at netent casinos?, about the author]netent casinos for uk: test & guide 2022 - casinonow[netent, games from netent can be played in two modes: freeplay or real money mode, find a game that has a low volatility level but high rtp, low wagering bonuses:, no deposit free spins:, 243 ways to win:, casino-now.co.uk, casino-now.co.uk][about us, united kingdom schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich deutschland canada english canada français nederland, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, deutschland, canada english, canada français, nederland, casinos, bonusse, slots, games, payment methods, software, casinonow, , casino software, , netent, payout rate 0%, payout time 1-5 days, min/max deposit £10 – £5000, , , , , payout rate 97%, payout time 1-7 days, min/max deposit £20 – no limit, , , , , , , , payout rate 92%, payout time 3-5 days, min/max deposit £10 – £5000, , , , , , , , payout rate 97%, payout time 2-4 days, min/max deposit £10 – £5000, , , , , , , , , payout rate 98%, payout time 1-3 days, min/max deposit £10 – £10000, , , , , , , , netent’s top 5 games in the uk 2022, advantages & disadvantages of netent casinos, netent casino games experience, netent software ins and outs, netent conclusion, netent casinos faq, previous, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, next, previous, 1, 2, next, all games are instantly playable via your devices web browser. there is no software to download and install., netent games offer more control over your playing experience with bet levels and coin size., netent is a reputable provider and all games are independently tested and certified for fairness., some of the best game graphics of any provider., some netent games have a low volatility level compared with other software providers, meaning the wins are sometimes smaller than some players would like., not as many games available outside of slots compared with other leading providers., low wagering bonuses: when searching for the best netent casinos, you will undoubtedly come across providers that offer new customer welcome bonuses. to give yourself the best chance of accessing any winnings from a bonus, choose a provider that has no or low wagering requirements., no deposit free spins: netent casinos around the world offer slot machine bonuses that do not require a deposit. as netent is a leading slots provider, many of the bonuses are directly linked to specific netent games. for example, 20 free spins on starburst slot., 243 ways to win: netent has a selection of games that are developed around the 243 ways to win model. in-game combinations of symbols can trigger wins both large and small. if you want more ways to win, find a netent game with this model rather than the usual 10-20 line slots., find your best payforit casinoland isoftbet wms sms grand ivy casino, payforit, casinoland, isoftbet, wms, sms, grand ivy casino, casino reviews casinoland grand ivy casino playfrank casino all british casino leovegas casino, casinoland, grand ivy casino, playfrank casino, all british casino, leovegas casino, bonuses welcome bonus free money free spins no deposit, welcome bonus, free money, free spins, no deposit, casino games online slots roulette live casino, online slots, roulette, live casino, mobile casino, payment methods payforit sms boku paysafe paypal neteller bitcoin, payforit, sms, boku, paysafe, paypal, neteller, bitcoin, guides real money casino new casinos gambling regulation uk gambling regulation, real money casino, new casinos, gambling regulation, uk gambling regulation, united kingdom schweiz deutsche suisse français österreich deutschland canada english canada français nederland, schweiz deutsche, suisse français, österreich, deutschland, canada english, canada français, nederland, about us emily campbell, emily campbell, casino review сasinoland the grand ivy casino playfrank casino come on casino spinit casino, сasinoland, the grand ivy casino, playfrank casino, come on casino, spinit casino, to learn real money casinos new casinos gambling regulation uk gambling regulation mobile casino, real money casinos, new casinos, gambling regulation, uk gambling regulation, mobile casino, games online slots roulette online, online slots, roulette online]