[welcome to history for kids the free online history network. we hope you enjoy and have fun exploring our history. the website is packed with articles, worksheets and even a quiz on each section., you will find cool games, videos, worksheets on many historical events that will help you understand those that have gone before us., learn about the ancient egyptian civilization and what they did in their daily lives. many things like metal work, paper making and amazing architecture all came from the egyptians., when where the pyramids built check here, there is so much to learn about ancient greece. this civilization was around almost 4000 years ago. you will learn about daily life and the amazing art and architecture that they are famous for. greek mythology is also very interesting to read about and your have fun learning.,  , rome was the greatest city in the ancient world. the roman empire stretched across europe and they had vast armies to help conquer other cities and countries. enjoy reading about this amazing time., world war 1 (also called the great war) started on july 28th 1914, you can read the article on the causes of the war below which will give you a better understanding. war is never nice and a lot of people lost their lives in the battels, world war 2 started in september 1939 when germany attacked poland. the axis powers were those countries that joined to attack europe, africa, the mediterranean and the pacific. the allied powers generally consisted of great britain, the soviet union, china and the united states., the middle ages happened after the fall of the roman empire. we have put together some fun and interesting information that talks about daily life and great leaders like joan of arc. you’ll also find a nice range printable worksheets. checkout our fun quiz also., enjoy our information on asian history and lots more as we add information. you’ll find lots of pictures, art and worksheets to help with you’re homework and school projects., learn all about ancient china, we cover the chinese daily life and from what type of food they liked to games and music. checkout the quiz and woeksheet for project and school work., our american history section covers many different topics like native people, religion, declaration of independence and much more. you’ll have fun learning about this wonderful topic. once done try our quiz and worksheets., mesopotamia is an area in south western asia where the first human civilisation emerged. the people who lived in mesopotamia were nomads., test your knowledge with our quiz section. we have it broken into different sections, all the answers can be found on the pages within the website and we hope you have fun learning all about history., checkout our printable pdf files all about history. take your time and enjoy by downloading, we hope you enjoy these extra teaching resources that we have provided., © 2022 history for kids. all rights reserved.][history for kids, egypt, greece, rome, world war 1, world war 2, middle ages, asia, china, american, mesopotamia, quiz, worksheets]history for kids - fun facts and social studies[][home, egypt, middle ages, greece, rome, asia, china, american, quiz, worksheets, lessons, history of egypt, daily life, egyptian architecture, egyptian science, greek history, greek science, greek sculpture, greek religion, medieval literature, medieval architecture, medieval daily life, the crusades, world war 1 world war 1 (also called the great war) started on july 28th 1914, you can read the article on the causes of the war below which will give you a better understanding. war is never nice and a lot of people lost their lives in the battels world war one timeline battle of jutland world war one aircraft the red baron view all world war 1, world war one timeline, battle of jutland, world war one aircraft, the red baron, world war 2 world war 2 started in september 1939 when germany attacked poland. the axis powers were those countries that joined to attack europe, africa, the mediterranean and the pacific. the allied powers generally consisted of great britain, the soviet union, china and the united states. world war two timeline causes of world war 2 d-day the invasion of normandy aircraft in world war two view all world war 2, world war two timeline, causes of world war 2, d-day the invasion of normandy, aircraft in world war two, middle ages the middle ages happened after the fall of the roman empire. we have put together some fun and interesting information that talks about daily life and great leaders like joan of arc. you’ll also find a nice range printable worksheets. checkout our fun quiz also. medieval literature medieval architecture medieval daily life the crusades view all middle ages, medieval literature, medieval architecture, medieval daily life, the crusades, asian history, daily life in asia, asian literature, asian art, chinese daily life, chinese art, china architecture, chinese literature, american our american history section covers many different topics like native people, religion, declaration of independence and much more. you’ll have fun learning about this wonderful topic. once done try our quiz and worksheets. american history bill of rights u.s. government constitution read more, american history, bill of rights, u.s. government, constitution, mesopotamia mesopotamia is an area in south western asia where the first human civilisation emerged. the people who lived in mesopotamia were nomads. great cities of mesopotamia persian wars babylonian empire daily life of mesopotamia read more, great cities of mesopotamia, persian wars, babylonian empire, daily life of mesopotamia, quiz test your knowledge with our quiz section. we have it broken into different sections, all the answers can be found on the pages within the website and we hope you have fun learning all about history. ancient egyptian quiz ancient egyptian quiz ancient rome quiz american history quiz read more, ancient egyptian quiz, ancient egyptian quiz, ancient rome quiz, american history quiz, worksheets checkout our printable pdf files all about history. take your time and enjoy by downloading, we hope you enjoy these extra teaching resources that we have provided. american history worksheets chinese history worksheets ancient egyptian worksheets ancient greece worksheets read more, american history worksheets, chinese history worksheets, ancient egyptian worksheets, ancient greece worksheets, ancient egypt, ancient rome, ancient greece, american history, asian middle ages, china, about, site map]