[learn more about the world with our collection of regional and country maps., brush up on your geography and finally learn what countries are in eastern europe with our maps., not sure about the geography of the middle east? we've got you covered with our map collection., need a reference? check ourencyclopedia for a gloss on thousands of topics from biographies to the table of elements., learn more about the mythic conflict between the argives and the trojans., learn about one of the world's oldest and most popular religions., human history, unsurprisingly, is very long and full of more details and events than anyone could remember. even the earliest histories we have today?some dating back thousands of years?grapple with making sense of everything that came before them. infoplease is here to help you get everything in order. check out the 100 most significant events of the last thousand years, an ancient history timeline, world history timelines and more., beginning with the earth's formation, through to the beginning of the modern day, fan favorites like ancient egypt, ancient greece, ancient in mesopotamia, harappa, the roman empire, and aksum make their debuts. though they have a less direct impact on the world today, these historic cultures held major influence over the course of history. the inventions of agriculture, fire, megalithic construction, and speech are the foundations of human life, as well as the development of the arts and sciences. check out our timelines to discover more about these remote (and often unrecognizable) times., ancient history, 1?999 (a.d.) world history, 1000?1099 (a.d.) world history, 1100?1199 (a.d.) world history, 1200?1299 (a.d.) world history, with the "rediscovery" of classical learning in the west, the invention of new economic models like mercantilism, and increased contact around the globe, the world begins to take the shape it has today. early modernity will see the creation of the nation-state, the rise of capitalism and colonialism, and the beginnings of industrialization. across the entire world, from mali to the maratha, this time period will see the consolidation and rise of thousands of notable polities and countries. explore some of the highlights from this defining period of human history, including the american revolution and the french revolution., 1300?1399 (a.d.) world history, 1400?1499 (a.d.) world history, 1500?1599 (a.d.) world history, 1600?1699 (a.d.) world history, 1700?1799 (a.d.) world history, , see also:, late modernity, if it can be meaningfully distinguished from the present day, begins in the 19th century and ends with world war ii and the beginning of the atomic era. the late modern period is characterized by industry, locomotion, the peak of colonialism and imperialism in africa and asia, and the beginnings of industrialized warfare. by the end of this time period, the multinational empires of the past will begin to break apart, paving the way for the current nations of the world., 1800?1899 (a.d.) world history, 1900 ? 1909 world history, 1910 ? 1919 world history, 1920 ? 1929 world history, 1930 ? 1939 world history, 1940 ? 1949 world history, world war i (1914?1918), the holocaust (1933?1945), world war ii (1939?1945), , contemporary history begins with the splitting of the atom and the rise of computers in the 20th century into the 21st century. these two new technologies more than anything else will fundamentally shape the course of human affairs. the contemporary period is characterized by the end of colonial imperialism, the rise of globalization and neocolonialism, the cold war, and the rapid growth of global communication. being the present, it's impossible to say when or how this time period may end., 1950 ? 1959 world history, 1960 ? 1969 world history, 1970 ? 1979 world history, 1980 ? 1989 world history, 1990 ? 1999 world history, 2000?2011(a.d.) world history, korean war (1950?1953), vietnam war, the persian gulf war (jan. 16, 1991?april 6, 1991), millennium milestones, , 1. the distinction between modern and pre-modern is a bit shaky at times. the most common dispute about when "modern" history begins is whether it starts right before or right after the middle ages (being named as such because they fall between classical history and modern history). ultimately the distinction between modern and pre-modern is fairly arbitrary, especially when applied to places outside of europe., 2. the editors at infoplease have decided to split the divide around the beginning of the italian renaissance. with the italian renaissance, things start to look more familiar than in the middle ages. medieval societies were built around systems of government, economic practices, and schools of thought that are often completely alien to today's readers, while by the renaissance things like standing armies, stock-bond companies, and ethnic states come into play., 3. the division between early modernity and late modernity is also relatively fuzzy, as it's most commonly decided based on industrialization and complex modes of production. these factors arise at different times in different places, and are not universal metrics of "progress." for simplicity's sake, the editors have marked the break with the industrialization of the united kingdom and the united states., ][atlas tools menu, encyclopedia tools menu, breadcrumb, world history, pre-modern1 history, early modern2 history, late modern3 history, contemporary history, footer]world history timelines[][browse world world overview atlas countries disasters news flags of the world geography international relations religion statistics structures & buildings travel world rulers people people overview academia & culture arts & entertainment business government newsmakers science sports u.s. u.s. overview cities u.s. documents gender issues geography government news military monuments & landmarks postal information race & ethnicity states statistics arts & entertainment sports history history overview timelines world history u.s. history black history month hispanic heritage month women's history month math & science math & science overview aviation biology computers & internet earth & environment health inventions & discoveries mathematics physics space weather weights & measures calendar & holidays calendar & holidays overview calendars holidays seasons, months, days perpetual calendar business business overview business consumer resources currency economy employment & labor personal finance poverty & income taxes primary sources primary sources overview philosophy & religion fables & fairy tales government history & biography poetry speeches & essays books & plays ask the editors view all questions & answers, world world overview atlas countries disasters news flags of the world geography international relations religion statistics structures & buildings travel world rulers, world overview, atlas, countries, disasters, news, flags of the world, geography, international relations, religion, statistics, structures & buildings, travel, world rulers, people people overview academia & culture arts & entertainment business government newsmakers science sports, people overview, academia & culture, arts & entertainment, business, government, newsmakers, science, sports, u.s. u.s. overview cities u.s. documents gender issues geography government news military monuments & landmarks postal information race & ethnicity states statistics arts & entertainment sports, u.s. overview, cities, u.s. documents, gender issues, geography, government, news, military, monuments & landmarks, postal information, race & ethnicity, states, statistics, arts & entertainment, sports, history history overview timelines world history u.s. history black history month hispanic heritage month women's history month, history overview, timelines, world history, u.s. history, black history month, hispanic heritage month, women's history month, math & science math & science overview aviation biology computers & internet earth & environment health inventions & discoveries mathematics physics space weather weights & measures, math & science overview, aviation, biology, computers & internet, earth & environment, health, inventions & discoveries, mathematics, physics, space, weather, weights & measures, calendar & holidays calendar & holidays overview calendars holidays seasons, months, days perpetual calendar, calendar & holidays overview, calendars, holidays, seasons, months, days, perpetual calendar, business business overview business consumer resources currency economy employment & labor personal finance poverty & income taxes, business overview, business, consumer resources, currency, economy, employment & labor, personal finance, poverty & income, taxes, primary sources primary sources overview philosophy & religion fables & fairy tales government history & biography poetry speeches & essays books & plays, primary sources overview, philosophy & religion, fables & fairy tales, government, history & biography, poetry, speeches & essays, books & plays, ask the editors view all questions & answers, view all questions & answers, tools conversion calculator latitude & longitude perpetual calendar dictionary thesaurus distance calculator periodic table videos spellcheck atlas atlas tools menu atlas learn more about the world with our collection of regional and country maps. title maps of europe brush up on your geography and finally learn what countries are in eastern europe with our maps. maps of europe title maps of the middle east not sure about the geography of the middle east? we've got you covered with our map collection. maps of the middle east encyclopedia encyclopedia tools menu encyclopedia need a reference? check ourencyclopedia for a gloss on thousands of topics from biographies to the table of elements. title the trojan war learn more about the mythic conflict between the argives and the trojans. the trojan war title buddhism learn about one of the world's oldest and most popular religions. buddhism, conversion calculator, latitude & longitude, perpetual calendar, dictionary, thesaurus, distance calculator, periodic table, videos, spellcheck, atlas atlas tools menu atlas learn more about the world with our collection of regional and country maps. title maps of europe brush up on your geography and finally learn what countries are in eastern europe with our maps. maps of europe title maps of the middle east not sure about the geography of the middle east? we've got you covered with our map collection. maps of the middle east, encyclopedia encyclopedia tools menu encyclopedia need a reference? check ourencyclopedia for a gloss on thousands of topics from biographies to the table of elements. title the trojan war learn more about the mythic conflict between the argives and the trojans. the trojan war title buddhism learn about one of the world's oldest and most popular religions. buddhism, tools conversion calculator latitude & longitude perpetual calendar dictionary thesaurus periodic table distance calculator videos atlas encyclopedia, conversion calculator, latitude & longitude, perpetual calendar, dictionary, thesaurus, periodic table, distance calculator, videos, atlas, encyclopedia, quizzes, top 10s, day in history, home >, history >, world history, encyclopedia: history, year-by-year: 1900?2014, inventions and discoveries, historical biographies, countries of the world, timelines, 1000?1899 world history, , , , about us, editorial policy, advertise with infoplease, privacy policy, site map, contact us, terms of use, citing infoplease, do not sell my info (for ca residents), our sources, , , , , ]