[universal history archive/getty images, the protestant reformation was the 16th-century religious, political, intellectual and cultural upheaval that splintered catholic europe, setting in place the structures and beliefs that would define the continent in the modern era. , in northern and central europe, reformers like martin luther, john calvin and henry viii challenged papal authority and questioned the catholic church’s ability to define christian practice. they argued for a religious and political redistribution of power into the hands of bible- and pamphlet-reading pastors and princes. the disruption triggered wars, persecutions and the so-called counter-reformation, the catholic church’s delayed but forceful response to the protestants., historians usually date the start of the protestant reformation to the 1517 publication of martin luther’s “95 theses.” its ending can be placed anywhere from the 1555 peace of augsburg, which allowed for the coexistence of catholicism and lutheranism in germany, to the 1648 treaty of westphalia, which ended the thirty years’ war. the key ideas of the reformation—a call to purify the church and a belief that the bible, not tradition, should be the sole source of spiritual authority—were not themselves novel. however, luther and the other reformers became the first to skillfully use the power of the printing press to give their ideas a wide audience., did you know? no reformer was more adept than martin luther at using the power of the press to spread his ideas. between 1518 and 1525, luther published more works than the next 17 most prolific reformers combined., martin luther (1483-1546) was an augustinian monk and university lecturer in wittenberg when he composed his “95 theses,” which protested the pope’s sale of reprieves from penance, or indulgences. although he had hoped to spur renewal from within the church, in 1521 he was summoned before the diet of worms and excommunicated. , sheltered by friedrich, elector of saxony, luther translated the bible into german and continued his output of vernacular pamphlets. when german peasants, inspired in part by luther’s empowering “priesthood of all believers,” revolted in 1524, luther sided with germany’s princes. by the reformation’s end, lutheranism had become the state religion throughout much of germany, scandinavia and the baltics., the swiss reformation began in 1519 with the sermons of ulrich zwingli, whose teachings largely paralleled luther’s. in 1541 john calvin, a french protestant who had spent the previous decade in exile writing his “institutes of the christian religion,” was invited to settle in geneva and put his reformed doctrine—which stressed god’s power and humanity’s predestined fate—into practice. the result was a theocratic regime of enforced, austere morality., calvin’s geneva became a hotbed for protestant exiles, and his doctrines quickly spread to scotland, france, transylvania and the low countries, where dutch calvinism became a religious and economic force for the next 400 years., in england, the reformation began with henry viii’s quest for a male heir. when pope clement vii refused to annul henry’s marriage to catherine of aragon so he could remarry, the english king declared in 1534 that he alone should be the final authority in matters relating to the english church. henry dissolved england’s monasteries to confiscate their wealth and worked to place the bible in the hands of the people. beginning in 1536, every parish was required to have a copy., after henry’s death, england tilted toward calvinist-infused protestantism during edward vi’s six-year reign and then endured five years of reactionary catholicism under mary i. in 1559 elizabeth i took the throne and, during her 44-year reign, cast the church of england as a “middle way” between calvinism and catholicism, with vernacular worship and a revised book of common prayer., the catholic church was slow to respond systematically to the theological and publicity innovations of luther and the other reformers. the council of trent, which met off and on from 1545 through 1563, articulated the church’s answer to the problems that triggered the reformation and to the reformers themselves., the catholic church of the counter-reformation era grew more spiritual, more literate and more educated. new religious orders, notably the jesuits, combined rigorous spirituality with a globally minded intellectualism, while mystics such as teresa of avila injected new passion into the older orders. inquisitions, both in spain and in rome, were reorganized to fight the threat of protestant heresy., along with the religious consequences of the reformation and counter-reformation came deep and lasting political changes. northern europe’s new religious and political freedoms came at a great cost, with decades of rebellions, wars and bloody persecutions. the thirty years’ war alone may have cost germany 40 percent of its population., but the reformation’s positive repercussions can be seen in the intellectual and cultural flourishing it inspired on all sides of the schism—in the strengthened universities of europe, the lutheran church music of j.s. bach, the baroque altarpieces of pieter paul rubens and even the capitalism of dutch calvinist merchants., the reformation, history.com editors, history, https://www.history.com/topics/reformation/reformation, , a&e television networks, september 9, 2021, december 2, 2009, fact check: we strive for accuracy and fairness. but if you see something that doesn't look right, click here to contact us! history reviews and updates its content regularly to ensure it is complete and accurate., videos, subscribe for fascinating stories connecting the past to the present., related content, the renaissance was a fervent period of european cultural, artistic, political and economic “rebirth” following the middle ages. generally described as taking place from the 14th century to the 17th century, the renaissance promoted the rediscovery of classical philosophy, ...read more, born in eisleben, germany, in 1483, martin luther went on to become one of western history’s most significant figures. luther spent his early years in relative anonymity as a monk and scholar. but in 1517 luther penned a document attacking the catholic church’s corrupt practice ...read more, when martin luther issued grievances about the catholic church in 1517, king henry viii took it upon himself to personally repudiate the arguments of the protestant reformation leader. the pope rewarded henry with the lofty title of fidei defensor, or defender of the faith. ...read more, the renaissance, roughly spanning the 14th to 17th centuries, marked a time of cultural, intellectual and scientific advances. from european discoveries of continents and shipping routes to new views of mathematics and astronomy to the advent of the printing press, the period of ...read more, christianity is the most widely practiced religion in the world, with more than 2 billion followers. the christian faith centers on beliefs regarding the birth, life, death and resurrection of jesus christ. while it started with a small group of adherents, many historians regard ...read more, the thirty years’ war was a 17th-century religious conflict fought primarily in central europe. it remains one of the longest and most brutal wars in human history, with more than 8 million casualties resulting from military battles as well as from the famine and disease caused ...read more, october 31 isn’t just halloween, it’s also reformation day—the anniversary of martin luther nailing his 95 theses to the door of the wittenberg castle church in germany in 1517. his theses challenged the authority of the catholic church, and sparked the historic split in ...read more, the bible is the holy scripture of the christian religion, purporting to tell the history of the earth from its earliest creation to the spread of christianity in the first century a.d. both the old testament and the new testament have undergone changes over the centuries, ...read more, the great awakening was a religious revival that impacted the english colonies in america during the 1730s and 1740s. the movement came at a time when the idea of secular rationalism was being emphasized, and passion for religion had grown stale. christian leaders often traveled ...read more][the reformation, contents, dating the reformation, the reformation: germany and lutheranism, the reformation: switzerland and calvinism, recommended for you, hawaii’s long road to becoming america’s 50th state, how theodore roosevelt changed the way america operated in the world, inside theodore roosevelt's gilded age upbringing, the reformation: england and the “middle way”, the counter-reformation, the reformation’s legacy, citation information, article title, author history.com editors, website name, url, access date, publisher, last updated, original published date, fact check: we strive for accuracy and fairness. but if you see something that doesn't look right, click here to contact us! history reviews and updates its content regularly to ensure it is complete and accurate., videos, the english reformation, mario savio on the fight for educational reform, jimmy hoffa on prison reform, clinton on healthcare reform, , related content, renaissance, martin luther and the 95 theses, henry viii wanted a divorce so he sparked a reformation, how the renaissance challenged the church and influenced the reformation, christianity, thirty years’ war, martin luther might not have nailed his 95 theses to the church door, the bible, great awakening]the reformation - history[][live tv, shows, this day in history, schedule, topics, stories, videos, history podcasts, history vault, shop, , , , , ad choices, advertise, closed captioning, copyright policy, corporate information, employment opportunities, faq/contact us, privacy notice, terms of use, tv parental guidelines, rss feeds, accessibility support, privacy settings, shows, this day in history, schedule, topics, stories, , , , , shows, this day in history, schedule, topics, stories, author: history.com editors, , , , , , dating the reformation, the reformation: germany and lutheranism, the reformation: switzerland and calvinism, the reformation: england and the “middle way”, the counter-reformation, the reformation’s legacy, , , , , ad choices, advertise, closed captioning, copyright policy, corporate information, employment opportunities, faq/contact us, privacy notice, terms of use, tv parental guidelines, rss feeds, accessibility support]