[in may 2021 over 80,000 developers told us how they learn and level up, which tools they’re using, and what they want., stack overflow for teams removes blockers & frees up time., promote your product or service to developers and technologists on stack overflow., engage the world’s technology talent with your employer brand., find trusted answers faster, engage with product experts., the questions we ask in our annual survey will help us improve the stack overflow community and the platform that serves them., this year, for example, we observed a significant evolution in the way developers educate themselves. for the rising cohort of coders under the age of 18, online resources like videos and blogs are more popular than books and school combined, a statistic that doesn’t hold for any of our other age cohorts. overall, the profession is full of new joiners, with more than 50% indicating they have been coding for less than a decade, and more than 35% having less than five years in the trade., the challenge and opportunity for us is to continue expanding and improving our ability to help all developers and to make them feel welcome in our community., read on for more great insights about the attitudes, tools, and environments that are shaping the art and practice of software today., it is no surprise that almost 60% of respondents learned how to code from online resources. younger respondents tend to learn from online courses, forums, and other online resources. older respondents, on the other hand, learned from more traditional mediums like school and books., aws maintains its lead as the most widely used cloud platform, but google cloud and microsoft azure made substantial gains from last year. it is worth noting that this is the first year that we broke out cloud platforms from our general platforms question., this year, react.js surpassed jquery as the most commonly used web framework., newcomer svelte takes the top spot as the most loved framework. react is the most wanted, desired by one in four developers., perl moves from being the highest-paid language last year to the fifth highest-paid this year. clojure developers have the highest median salary, 14k more than second place which belongs to f#., 81% of professional developers are employed full-time, a decrease from 83% in 2020. the percentage of professional developers saying they were independent contractors, freelancers, or self-employed increased from 9.5% in 2020 to 11.2% in 2021 - indicating potential job insecurity or a shift to more flexible work arrangements., what we know about the global community of developers, developer profile, stack overflow serves the international community, and our survey received responses from almost every country on earth., the united states and india continue to provide the highest volume of survey responses, followed by germany and uki (uk and ireland). the top ten countries account for almost 60% of all respondents. to see the top ten countries, refer to the methodology section. when we zoom into the united states (our top-responding country), we see that the states with established tech hubs have the most respondents: california, new york, washington, and texas., developer profile, senior executives and managers tend to have the most years of coding experience, while those working in data science and machine learning tend to have the least, on average less than even an academic researcher., coders start young: over 50% of respondents wrote their first line of code between the ages of 11 to 17., it is no surprise that almost 60% of respondents learned how to code from online resources. younger respondents tend to learn from online courses, forums, and other online resources. older respondents, on the other hand, learned from more traditional mediums like school and books., 50% of respondents have been coding for ten years or less. respondents from the united kingdom, on average, have the most years coding out of our top ten countries., a majority of respondents have been working for ten or less years as a professional developer, meaning they’ve never worked in a world without stack overflow., developers in more senior roles have the most years of coding professionally. data scientists and machine learning specialists, meanwhile, have the least experience, with fewer years than academic researchers., developer profile, people holding full stack developer roles are the most prevalent. interestingly, the role of designer has fallen since last year, swapping spots with system administrators., full stack, back-end, front-end, and desktop developers continue to account for the majority of all respondents., developer profile, developers are a highly educated bunch, with more than 65% holding a bachelor’s degree or higher. but a traditional university education isn’t everything, and around a quarter of respondents have less than a bachelor’s degree., 70% of all respondents and 80% of professional developers have completed some form of higher education, a bachelor’s degree being the most common., developer profile, roughly a third of respondents responded to our question on mental health. this is twice the percentage that offered feedback in 2020 and may reflect the growing awareness of mental health’s importance and the impact of the ongoing pandemic., 48% of professional developers are 25-34 years old. almost half of the respondents 65 years or older do not consider themselves professional developers., 91% of all respondents and 92% of professional developers identify as a man. the united states has the highest percentage of gender minorities (woman, non-binary, genderqueer, or gender non-conforming). we have considerable work to do to ensure our platform is inclusive and that our survey is representative of developers everywhere., percent who identify as woman, non-binary, genderqueer, or gender non-conforming, only 1% of respondents identify as transgender, half of them being professional developers., 11.5% of respondents identify as something other than straight / heterosexual, with 6.5% preferring not to identify with any orientation. there’s still so much work to be done to ensure the developer community is more inclusive., we continue to see evidence that people of color are underrepresented among professional developers., 2,960 respondents have a physical difference, with the majority of these respondents being blind or having difficulty seeing., over 16,000 respondents replied to our question on mental health, with almost 10% of all respondents indicating they deal with anxiety., each year we explore the tools and technologies developers are currently using. and, as always, we ask them what technologies are most loved, dreaded, and wanted across several categories., this year we also introduced a new section, worked with vs. want to work with, which shows us precisely what developers used in the past year and what they want to work on in the following year. if you need a refresher on how we structure loved, dread and wanted, or if you want to read about the intuition behind worked with vs. want to work with, check out this post our meta post., technology, python passed sql to become our third most popular technology, and node.js moves to the sixth most popular technology., javascript completes its ninth year in a row as the most commonly used programming language. for most developers, programming is web programming. python traded places with sql to become the third most popular language., the most common databases are consistent between all respondents and professional developers. the only difference we observed is that professional developers are slightly more likely to use microsoft sql server over mongodb., aws maintains its lead as the most widely used cloud platform, but google cloud and microsoft azure made substantial gains from last year. it is worth noting that this is the first year that we broke out cloud platforms from our general platforms question., this year, react.js surpassed jquery as the most commonly used web framework., the .net framework gets the most love in other technologies, though several data science libraries for python make strong showings., over 90% of respondents use git, suggesting that it is a fundamental tool to being a developer., visual studio code has a significant lead as the ide of choice across all developers., windows continues to be the most popular operating system, though slightly less so among professional developers. this year was also the first time we added wsl as an option., technology, rust reigns supreme as most loved. python and typescript are the languages developers want to work with most if they aren’t already doing so., for the sixth-year, rust is the most loved language, while python is the most wanted language for its fifth-year., % of developers who are not developing with the language or technology but have expressed interest in developing with it, redis is in its fifth year as the most loved database. postgresql barely passes mongodb with less than a percent as the most wanted database. and ibm db2 is on its second year in a row as the most dreaded database., % of developers who are not developing with the language or technology but have expressed interest in developing with it, aws is leading as not only the most loved cloud platform but also the most wanted., % of developers who are not developing with the language or technology but have expressed interest in developing with it, newcomer svelte takes the top spot as the most loved framework. react is the most wanted, desired by one in four developers., % of developers who are not developing with the language or technology but have expressed interest in developing with it, while tensorflow is the most wanted library, pytorch is a more loved library. as .net core users here at stack overflow, we’re pleased to see it in the top spot., % of developers who are not developing with the language or technology but have expressed interest in developing with it, earlier, we saw that git was used by 93% of all respondents. now we saw that 85% of those respondents want to continue working with git. git, docker, and kubernetes are both the most loved and most wanted tools., % of developers who are not developing with the language or technology but have expressed interest in developing with it, while neovim is the most loved editor it is the 10th most wanted editor., % of developers who are not developing with the language or technology but have expressed interest in developing with it, technology, there is a lot to unpack here, but here are some of the most notable trends we uncovered. there are over 10k javascript developers that want to start or continue developing in go or rust. the majority of developers that want to use dart are currently using javascript. we also see the only developers that want to work in php are sql developers., minimum 5,000 respondents per connection., minimum 5,000 respondents per connection., 12,590 mysql developers want to work with postgresql, while 6,429 postgresql developers want to work with mysql., minimum 5,000 respondents per connection., minimum 5,000 respondents per connection., while aws is the most loved platform, we see a large influx of aws developers wanting to develop in google cloud next year. 8,586 aws developers want to work with google cloud, while only 7,668 google cloud developers want to work in aws. developers currently using heroku or digital ocean prefer to start working with or continue working with aws, then google cloud, and lastly azure. very few developers currently using azure want to move to heroku., minimum 1,000 respondents per connection., minimum 1,000 respondents per connection., django, flask, and spring developers are content to continue working in their respective frameworks. very few developers want to work with asp.net., minimum 4,000 respondents per connection., minimum 4,000 respondents per connection., the developers who want to work in hadoop are currently using pandas or numpy. there and 3,328 tensorflow developers that want to continue to use pytorch, but only 2,328 pytorch developers that want to move to tensorflow., minimum 1,000 respondents per connection., minimum 1,000 respondents per connection., minimum 5,000 respondents per connection., minimum 5,000 respondents per connection., we see ipython/jupyter users want to work in vs code. this is likely due to vs codes adding a notebook api to their ide., minimum 5,000 respondents per connection., minimum 5,000 respondents per connection., technology, respondents most often use google when they get stuck or visit stack overflow., technology, perl moves from being the highest-paid language last year to the fifth highest-paid this year. clojure developers have the highest median salary, 14k more than second place which belongs to f#., work, we see a greater percentage of respondents working part time or in school, while those indicating full time employment decreased. this may reflect the effects of the pandemic, which saw workers from all industries stepping back and reevaluating their relationship to full and in-person employment., 81% of professional developers are employed full-time, a decrease from 83% in 2020. the percentage of professional developers saying they were independent contractors, freelancers, or self-employed increased from 9.5% in 2020 to 11.2% in 2021 - indicating potential job insecurity or a shift to more flexible work arrangements., the percent of employed full-time respondents from india decreased by 15 percentage points compared to last year. in contrast, the number of students increased by 9 percentage points., work, this year we saw an increase in respondents that are freelancing compared to last year., work, across the board, engineering managers, sres, devops specialists, and data engineers tend to receive the highest salaries. when focusing on the us, we see some differences at the bottom of the salary spectrum. in the us, mobile developers and educators tend to have a higher salary relative to other occupations when compared to the global developer population., median yearly salary in usd, median yearly salary in usd, even though engineering managers, sres, devops specialist roles pay the most, we see they also have, on average, over ten years of professional experience. data scientists or machine learning specialists are the 8th most paid but, on average, have the fewest years of experience. designers are the lowest paid even though they have over ten years of experience on average., php developers are disproportionately underpaid compared to other languages with the same experience., community is at the center of all that we do., community, less than 1% of respondents have never visited stack overflow or the stack exchange network., we know that developers visit stack overflow a lot, and earlier this year, we confirmed that they copy code just as much. from this year’s survey, we also know that 80% of respondents visit stack overflow weekly, and 55% of them visit daily., 8 out of 10 respondents have a stack overflow account., of those with a stack overflow account, 46% are participating on the site less than once per month or monthly., only 44% of respondents consider themselves “somewhat” or “definitely” a member of the stack overflow community. of these respondents, we see that gender minorities are less likely to consider themselves a member of the stack overflow community., percent who consider themselves definitely or somewhat part of the stack overflow community out of all respondents., percent who consider themselves definitely or somewhat part of the stack overflow community., community, most respondents do not belong to any other development communities online., almost 25 thousand respondents belong to other online developer communities. 85% of the them are open to the public for anyone to join. the majority of these other communities belong on reddit, github or discord., how we planned and analyzed our survey, methodology, this report is based on a survey of 83,439 software developers from 181 countries around the world. this is the number of responses we consider “qualified” for analytical purposes based on time spent on the full, completed survey; another approximately 172 responses were submitted but not included in the analysis because respondents spent less than three minutes on the survey., the survey was fielded from may 25 2021 to june 15 2021., the median time spent on the survey for qualified responses was 10.21 minutes., respondents were recruited primarily through channels owned by stack overflow. the top sources of respondents were onsite messaging, blog posts, email lists, banner ads, and social media posts. since respondents were recruited in this way, highly engaged users on stack overflow were more likely to notice the prompts to take the survey over the duration of collection promotion., as an incentive, respondents who finished the survey could opt in to a “census” badge if they completed the survey., due to united states transport/export sanctions, our survey was unfortunately unaccessible to prospective respondents in crimea, cuba, iran, north korea, and syria, due to the traffic being blocked by our third party survey software. while some respondents used vpns to get around the block, the limitation should be kept in mind when interpreting survey results., many questions were only shown to respondents based on their previous answers. for example, questions about jobs and work were only shown to those who said they were working in a job., we asked respondents about their salary. first, we asked what currency each respondent typically used. then we asked that respondent what their salary was in that currency and whether that salary was weekly, monthly, or yearly., the salary question, like most on the survey, was optional. there were 46,844 respondents who gave us salary data., we converted salaries from user currencies to usd using the exchange rate on 2021-06-16, and also converted to annual salaries assuming 12 working months and 50 working weeks., the top approximately 2% of salaries inside and outside of the us were trimmed and replaced with threshold values. the threshold values for inside and outside the us were different., to identify which technologies to include on the survey this year, we looked at both the most popular and fastest growing tags on stack overflow (in terms of questions posted). we compared these to the technologies we included last year and looked at how many people chose each option. we synthesized all this together to curate a collection of technologies to include., the questions were organized into several blocks of questions, which were randomized in order. also, the answers to most questions were randomized in order., methodology, the majority of respondents felt like this year’s survey was an appropriate length., less than one percent of respondents felt like this year’s survey was difficult., methodology, similar to previous years the overwhelming majority of respondents are a developer by profession, the following countries are the top 10 countries that we received responses from.][reuse collective knowledge, advertise with us, build your employer brand, explore collectives™ on stack overflow, overview, developer profile, key territories, geography, experience, writing that first line of code, learning how to code, years coding, years coding professionally, years of professional coding experience by developer type, developer roles, developer type, education, educational attainment, demographics, age, gender, transgender, sexual orientation, race and ethnicity, disability status, mental health, technology, most popular technologies, programming, scripting, and markup languages, databases, cloud platforms, web frameworks, other frameworks and libraries, other tools, integrated development environment, operating system, most loved, dreaded, and wanted, programming, scripting, and markup languages, databases, platforms, web frameworks, other frameworks and libraries, other tools, collaboration tools, worked with vs. want to work with, programming, scripting, and markup languages, databases, platforms, web frameworks, other frameworks and libraries, other tools, collaboration tools, learning & problem solving, what do you do when you get stuck, top paying technologies, top paying technologies, work, employment, employment status, employment status by geography, company info, company size, salary, salary by developer type, salary and experience by developer type, salary and experience by language, community, stack overflow site use, visited stack exchange sites, visiting stack overflow, how many participants have a stack overflow account?, how often do developers participate on stack overflow?, do developers consider themselves part of the stack overflow community?, stack overflow community now, member of other online developer community, other communities public or private, methodology, general, feedback, how do you feel about the length of the survey this year?, how easy or difficult was this survey to complete?, participants, who participated in this survey, where do you live?]stack overflow developer survey 2021[%, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, , #, %, #, , #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, web frameworks, %, #, web frameworks, %, #, %, #, %, #, tools, %, #, tools, %, #, development environments, %, #, development environments, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, web frameworks, %, #, web frameworks, %, #, tools, %, #, tools, development environments, %, #, development environments, web frameworks, web frameworks, tools, tools, development environments, development environments, %, #, %, #, $, #, $, #, $, #, $, #, $, #, $, #, $, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, $, #, $, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #, %, #][overview, developer profile key territories experience developer roles education demographics, key territories, experience, developer roles, education, demographics, technology most popular technologies most loved, dreaded, and wanted worked with vs. want to work with learning & problem solving top paying technologies, most popular technologies, most loved, dreaded, and wanted, worked with vs. want to work with, learning & problem solving, top paying technologies, work employment company info salary, employment, company info, salary, community stack overflow site use stack overflow community now, stack overflow site use, stack overflow community now, methodology general feedback participants, general, feedback, participants, key territories →, experience →, developer roles →, education →, demographics →, most popular technologies →, most loved, dreaded, and wanted →, worked with vs. want to work with →, learning & problem solving →, top paying technologies →, employment →, company info →, salary →, stack overflow site use →, stack overflow community now →, general →, feedback →, participants →]