[an official website of the united states government, here’s how you know, official websites use .gov a .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the united states., secure .gov websites use https a lock ( locka locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. share sensitive information only on official, secure websites., covid-19 public education campaign, an initiative to increase confidence in covid-19 vaccines and reinforce basic prevention measures, during the covid-19 pandemic, many people have been exposed to information that is false, inaccurate, or misleading. misconceptions about the covid-19 vaccines have caused confusion and led people to decline vaccines, reject public health measures such as masking and physical distancing, and use unproven treatments., as vaccinations are approved for children across the country, u.s. surgeon general dr. vivek murthy released a new community toolkit for addressing health misinformation., the toolkit resources can help you understand, identify, and stop misinformation, and help others do the same.  , read the media release | download the toolkit, u.s surgeon general dr. vivek murthy's advisory, confronting health misinformation, focuses on the urgent threat of health misinformation about covid-19 vaccines., the advisory can provide valuable background to use in your vaccination outreach.  , read a summary of the advisory | download the advisory (pdf)  ,  , share these graphics on social media. view social graphics., covid-19 community corps webinar with the surgeon general on misinformation (30 minutes). view video., below is a selection of videos you can share to correct common misconceptions and misinformation about covid-19 vaccines. for more sources and information, see the cdc’s page., video featuring dr. joia crear-perry explaining how doctors have found no evidence that the vaccines affect fertility in men or women., sixty second video that features dr. amy edwards explaining that covid-19 is one of the worst respiratory viruses seen in children in a long time — and how older kids and teens contribute to spreading the virus in the community., fifty second video that features dr. marcella nunez-smith, explaining that we have a responsibility to identify and address covid-19 vaccine misconceptions., dr. kristamarie collman, an orlando physician, shares why she created a tiktok to address covid-19 vaccine misconceptions and encourage trusted, science based education., content last reviewed: january 27, 2022, content last reviewed: january 27, 2022, wecandothis.hhs.gov, an official website of the u.s. department of health and human services, 200 independence avenue, s.w. washington, d.c. 20201, looking for u.s. government information and services? visit usa.gov][how to address covid-19 vaccine misconceptions, a community toolkit for addressing health misinformation, toolkit for addressing health misinformation, confronting health misinformation, u.s surgeon general's advisory, graphics about the advisory for social media, covid-19 community corps webinar, more resources to address misconceptions , do covid vaccines cause infertility?, ask a doctor: do covid vaccines cause infertility?, do kids need to be vaccinated against covid-19?, ask a doctor: why should children get a covid-19 vaccine?, vaccine misconceptions, vaccine misconceptions, using tiktok to address vaccine misconceptions, dr. kristamarie collman: using tiktok to address vaccine misconceptions, features, federal resources, hhs information, contact info]how to address covid-19 vaccine misconceptions | wecandothis.hhs.gov[official websites use .gov, .gov, secure .gov websites use https, lock, https://][español, shareable resources browse resources featured topics & resources campaign ads, browse resources, featured topics & resources, campaign ads, outreach tools outreach guide using vaccines.gov in your outreach, outreach guide, using vaccines.gov in your outreach, about the campaign campaign overview campaign strategy and approach contact us, campaign overview, campaign strategy and approach, contact us, get involved community events weekly call to action the covid-19 community corps new member welcome members of the covid-19 community corps, community events, weekly call to action, the covid-19 community corps, new member welcome, members of the covid-19 community corps, español, español, home, how to address covid-19 vaccine misconceptions, español, about the campaign, campaign resources & toolkits, campaign ads, covid-19 community corps, resource printing and sharing tips, contact us, cdc.gov/coronavirus, usa.gov, healthcare.gov, usaspending.gov, department of labor, white house guidelines for opening up america again, privacy policy, accessibility, freedom of information act, viewers and plug-ins, website disclaimers, nondiscrimination notice, office of inspector general]