[the hub of your digital classroom that serves as the foundation for teaching and learning., the assessment tools and quality content educators need to accelerate learning forward., powerful analytical tools that provide actionable insights for making impactful decisions., the data-driven support and communication solution that improves tool adoption within canvas., we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more., through the center of leadership & learning, we offer professional development experiences for school and district leaders., modern tools that elevate the higher ed experience whether virtual, hybrid, or in-person., data-driven support and communication solution to maximize the use of campus technology., we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more., articles, videos, stories, and news about our products, edtech, and education., share ideas, ask and answer questions, access guides, and connect with peers., modify and use online courses from educators and institutions worldwide., see how we integrate with your sis, custom apps, and hundreds of external edu apps., state of assessment in k-12 education, on-demand webinar, crafting the perfect lms transition plan, work with us, instructure careers, the hub of your digital classroom that serves as the foundation for teaching and learning., the assessment tools and quality content educators need to accelerate learning forward., powerful analytical tools that provide actionable insights for making impactful decisions., the data-driven support and communication solution that improves tool adoption within canvas., we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more., through the center of leadership & learning, we offer professional development experiences for school and district leaders., modern tools that elevate the higher ed experience whether virtual, hybrid, or in-person., data-driven support and communication solution to maximize the use of campus technology., we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more., articles, videos, stories, and news about our products, edtech, and education., share ideas, ask and answer questions, access guides, and connect with peers., modify and use online courses from educators and institutions worldwide., see how we integrate with your sis, custom apps, and hundreds of external edu apps., state of assessment in k-12 education, on-demand webinar, crafting the perfect lms transition plan, work with us, instructure careers, last updated: october 28, 2019, instructure, inc. and its affiliates and subsidiaries (collectively, "instructure," "we," "our," or "us") are committed to protecting your privacy. we have prepared this privacy policy to describe our practices regarding the information processed by our products and any other instructure products that link to this privacy policy (collectively "products")., this privacy policy is generally applicable to all of instructure's products unless otherwise specified., to learn about instructure's information practices for data collected through our corporate sites, please visit https://www.instructure.com/policies/marketing-privacy., for eu and eea residents, instructure complies with the eu-u.s. privacy shield framework and the swiss-u.s. privacy shield framework as set forth by the u.s. department of commerce regarding the collection, use, and retention of personal information transferred from the european union (“eu”) and switzerland to the united states (“u.s.”) respectively, as that term is defined in the privacy shield framework. instructure has certified to the department of commerce that it adheres to the privacy shield principles. instructure is committed to subjecting all personal data received from the eu and switzerland, in reliance on the privacy shield framework, to the framework’s applicable principles. if there is any conflict between the terms in this privacy policy and the privacy shield principles, the privacy shield principles shall govern. to learn more about the privacy shield framework, visit the u.s. department of commerce’s privacy shield list: https://www.privacyshield.gov/list., instructure’s privacy policy, as provided below, describes the types of personal information that instructure collects, the types of third parties to which it discloses personal data, and the purposes for which it does so. instructure collects contact and demographic information to respond to requests or to personalize and deliver the services. instructure transfers this information to third parties acting as an agent on its behalf. instructure is accountable for the processing of personal data it receives, under the privacy shield framework, and subsequently transfers to a third party. instructure complies with the privacy shield principles for all onward transfers of personal data from the eu and switzerland, including the onward transfer liability provisions., residents of the eu and switzerland have the right to access the personal information that instructure maintains, and in some cases, may have the right to correct or amend information that is inaccurate or has been processed in violation of the privacy shield principles, to the extent allowed by law. to exercise this right, contact us at [email protected] to learn more about the choices you have over your personal information, please see the subsection below entitled, “your choices regarding your personal information.”, with respect to personal data received or transferred pursuant to the privacy shield framework, instructure is subject to the regulatory enforcement powers of the u.s. federal trade commission. in certain situations, instructure may be required to disclose personal data in response to lawful requests by public authorities, including to meet national security or law enforcement requirements., residents of the eu and switzerland with inquiries or complaints regarding this privacy policy should first contact instructure at:, [email protected], 6330 s 3000 e, ste 700 salt lake city, ut 84121 (801) 869.5000, if you have an unresolved privacy or data use concern that we have not addressed satisfactorily, please contact our u.s.-based third party dispute resolution provider (free of charge) at https://feedback-form.truste.com/watchdog/request. under certain conditions, more fully described on the privacy shield website, you may be entitled to invoke binding arbitration when other dispute resolution procedures have been exhausted., data you provide to us., we collect information from you, such as first and last name, gender, e-mail and mailing addresses, professional title, company name, and password when you create an account to log in to our network. when you order services on our site or apps, you provide us or our third party payment processor with information necessary to complete the transaction, which may include your name, credit card information, billing information, and shipping information. we also may retain information on your behalf, such as files and messages that you store using your account. if you provide us feedback or contact us via e-mail, we will collect your name and e-mail address, as well as any other content included in the e-mail. when you participate in one of our surveys, we may collect additional profile information. we also collect other types of personal information and demographic information that you provide to us voluntarily., data collected via technology., our servers (which may be hosted by a third party service provider) collect information from you, including browser type, operating system, internet protocol (ip) address (a number that is automatically assigned to your computer when you use the internet, which may vary from session to session), domain name, and/or a date/time stamp for your visit. we also use cookies and web beacons (as described below) and navigational data like uniform resource locators (url) to gather information regarding the date and time of your visit and the solutions and information for which you searched and which you viewed. like most internet services, we automatically gather this data and store it in log files each time you visit our site, use our apps, or access your account on our network. we may link this automatically-collected data to personally identifiable information. our use of information received from gmail apis will adhere to google's limited use requirements.“our product’s use and transfer to any other application of information received from google apis will adhere to google api services user data policy, including the limited use requirements.”, “cookies” are small pieces of information that a website sends to your computer’s hard drive while you are viewing a website. we may use both session cookies (which expire once you close your web browser) and persistent cookies (which stay on your computer until you delete them) to provide you with a more personal and interactive experience on our site., “web beacons” are digital images we use to log information on our site and in our emails. we use web beacons to manage cookies, count visits, and to learn what marketing works and what does not. we also use web beacons to tell if you open or act on our emails., “flash cookies” are used to store your preferences such as volume control or to display content based upon what you view on our websites to personalize your visit. third party partners who provide certain features on our websites, such as videos, may place flash cookies on your device. flash cookies are different from other cookies because of the amount of, type of, and way in which data is stored. cookie management tools provided by your browser usually will not remove flash cookies. to learn more about flash cookies, who has placed flash cookies on your device, and how to manage privacy and storage settings for flash cookies click here: http://www.macromedia.com/support/documentation/en/flashplayer/help/settings_manager.html#117118. we do not permit third parties who place or track flash cookies to use the personal information they collect for advertising or marketing purposes., most web browsers are set to accept cookies by default. if you prefer, you can typically remove and reject cookies from our site with your browser settings. if you remove or reject our cookies, it will affect how our site and services work for you., analytics., we use analytics services to help analyze how users use the site and apps. these services use cookies and scripts to collect and store information such as how users interact with our apps, errors users encounter when using our apps, device identifiers, how often users visit the site, what pages they visit, and what other sites they used prior to coming to the site. we use the information we get from google analytics only to improve our site, our apps, and our services. please see the following links for more information about google analytics: http://www.google.com/privacy_ads.html, http://www.google.com/privacy.html, and http://www.google.com/analytics/tos.html. we do not tie the information gathered using third party analytics to your personally identifiable information., blogs/forums., our products may offer a publicly accessible blog and community forums. you should be aware that any information you provide in these areas may be read, collected, and used by others who access them., use of your data., in general, personal information you submit to us is used either to respond to requests that you make, or to aid us in serving you better. instructure uses your personal information in the following ways: to create and maintain your account; to identify you as a user in our system; to operate, maintain, and improve our site, apps, and services; to personalize and improve your experience; to send you administrative e-mail; to respond to your comments or inquiries; to protect, investigate, and deter against fraudulent, unauthorized, or illegal activity; and to make telephone calls to you, from time to time, as a part of secondary fraud protection or to solicit your feedback with your permission., disclosure of your personal information., we will share your personal information with third parties only in the ways that are described in this privacy policy or with your consent., affiliates., although we currently do not have a parent company, any subsidiaries, joint ventures, or other companies under a common control (collectively, “affiliates”), we may in the future. we may share some or all of your information with these affiliates, in which case we will require our affiliates to honor this privacy policy., third party service providers., we may share your personal information with third party service providers for the sole purpose of providing you with the services that we offer you through our site. for example, we may share data with service providers who host our websites or provide email services on our behalf., other disclosures. , instructure may disclose information about you if it believes such disclosure is necessary to (a) comply with laws or to respond to lawful requests and legal process; or (b) protect or defend the rights, safety, or property of instructure, users of the services, or any person including to enforce our agreements, policies, and terms of use or (c) in an emergency to protect the personal safety of any person. we may also share information about you in connection with or during negotiation of any merger, financing, acquisition, bankruptcy, dissolution, transaction or proceeding involving sale, transfer, divestiture or disclosure of all or a portion of our business or assets to another company. in the event that information is shared in this manner, notice will be posted on our site. we may also use de-identified and/or aggregated data for our own use. we do not use information collected through the products for advertising or marketing purposes., social networking platforms., we may allow you to connect and share information with certain social networking platforms (“social networking platforms”) (e.g., a facebook application). by choosing to use these social networking platforms, you allow instructure to share information with the social networking platform. for example, you might use an application to publish instructure related notices on your facebook wall. if you do not want us to continue to provide your information to the social networking platform, you may change your privacy settings in the social networking platform. you can also access certain features of our site using social networking platforms. these services will authenticate your identity and provide you the option to share certain personal information with us such as your name, email address, and other personal information to pre-populate an application. we do not control the privacy practices of the social networking platforms and sign-in services you choose to use and this privacy policy does not cover their practices, you should visit the privacy policies of any social networking platform or sign-in service you choose to use to understand their practices., changes to personal information., you may change some of your personal information in your account by editing your profile within the service. you may also request changes or deletions by e-mailing us at the e-mail address set forth below. we will respond to your request, when permitted by law, within 30 days. we may be unable to delete information that resides in our archives., security of your personal information., instructure takes reasonable steps to help protect your personal information in an effort to prevent unauthorized access, use, or disclosure. despite these measures, you should know that instructure cannot fully eliminate security risks associated with personal information. no method of transmission over the internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100% secure. therefore, we cannot guarantee its absolute security. any content you post while using the services is at your own risk. if you have any questions about security on our site or apps, you can contact us at the contact information set forth below., contact information., instructure welcomes your comments or questions regarding this privacy policy. please e-mail us at [email protected] or contact us at the following address or phone number:, instructure, inc. 6330 s 3000 e, ste 700 salt lake city, ut 84121 (801) 869.5000, changes to this privacy policy., instructure may change this privacy policy from time to time. if we make any changes to this policy, we will change the “last updated” date above. if such changes are material, a notice of the changes will be posted along with the revised privacy policy. we encourage you to visit this page from time to time for the latest on our privacy practices., global hq, 6330 south 3000 east suite 700 salt lake city, ut 84121 usa, copyright © 2022 instructure, inc. all rights reserved. various trademarks held by their respective owners.][select your location, americas, asia pacific, europe, utility, main, main, select your location, americas, asia pacific, europe, utility, instructure product privacy policy, global hq, footer menu, footer utility, social]instructure product privacy policy | instructure[for eu and eea residents, data you provide to us., data collected via technology., “cookies”, “web beacons”, “flash cookies”, analytics., blogs/forums., use of your data., disclosure of your personal information., affiliates., third party service providers., other disclosures. , social networking platforms., changes to personal information., security of your personal information., contact information., changes to this privacy policy.][americas north america english brazil português latin america español, north america english, brazil português, latin america español, asia pacific australia english, australia english, europe germany deutsch spain español united kingdom english benelux dutch, germany deutsch, spain español, united kingdom english, benelux dutch, try canvas free, corp edu, support, contact us, log in canvas mastery connect elevate data sync student eportfolio, canvas, mastery connect, elevate data sync, student eportfolio, k-12 k-12 solutions column canvas the hub of your digital classroom that serves as the foundation for teaching and learning. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free column mastery the assessment tools and quality content educators need to accelerate learning forward. mastery connect mastery item bank mastery view formative assessments mastery view interim assessments mastery view predictive assessments column elevate powerful analytical tools that provide actionable insights for making impactful decisions. elevate k-12 analytics elevate data quality column impact the data-driven support and communication solution that improves tool adoption within canvas. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. leadership development through the center of leadership & learning, we offer professional development experiences for school and district leaders. all products column solutions by need learning management assessment content online programs analytics professional development integrations with partner tools solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators for students & parents, k-12 solutions column canvas the hub of your digital classroom that serves as the foundation for teaching and learning. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free column mastery the assessment tools and quality content educators need to accelerate learning forward. mastery connect mastery item bank mastery view formative assessments mastery view interim assessments mastery view predictive assessments column elevate powerful analytical tools that provide actionable insights for making impactful decisions. elevate k-12 analytics elevate data quality column impact the data-driven support and communication solution that improves tool adoption within canvas. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. leadership development through the center of leadership & learning, we offer professional development experiences for school and district leaders. all products, column canvas the hub of your digital classroom that serves as the foundation for teaching and learning. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free, canvas the hub of your digital classroom that serves as the foundation for teaching and learning., canvas lms, canvas studio, canvas catalog, try canvas free, column mastery the assessment tools and quality content educators need to accelerate learning forward. mastery connect mastery item bank mastery view formative assessments mastery view interim assessments mastery view predictive assessments, mastery the assessment tools and quality content educators need to accelerate learning forward., mastery connect, mastery item bank, mastery view formative assessments, mastery view interim assessments, mastery view predictive assessments, column elevate powerful analytical tools that provide actionable insights for making impactful decisions. elevate k-12 analytics elevate data quality, elevate powerful analytical tools that provide actionable insights for making impactful decisions., elevate k-12 analytics, elevate data quality, column impact the data-driven support and communication solution that improves tool adoption within canvas. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. leadership development through the center of leadership & learning, we offer professional development experiences for school and district leaders. all products, impact the data-driven support and communication solution that improves tool adoption within canvas., services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more., leadership development through the center of leadership & learning, we offer professional development experiences for school and district leaders., all products, column solutions by need learning management assessment content online programs analytics professional development integrations with partner tools solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators for students & parents, solutions by need learning management assessment content online programs analytics professional development integrations with partner tools, learning management, assessment, content, online programs, analytics, professional development, integrations with partner tools, solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators for students & parents, for administrators, for it/technologists, for educators, for students & parents, higher education higher education solutions column canvas modern tools that elevate the higher ed experience whether virtual, hybrid, or in-person. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free column impact data-driven support and communication solution to maximize the use of campus technology. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. all products column solutions by need learning management student engagement & success content online programs analytics integrations with partner tools solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators, higher education solutions column canvas modern tools that elevate the higher ed experience whether virtual, hybrid, or in-person. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free column impact data-driven support and communication solution to maximize the use of campus technology. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. all products, column canvas modern tools that elevate the higher ed experience whether virtual, hybrid, or in-person. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free, canvas modern tools that elevate the higher ed experience whether virtual, hybrid, or in-person., canvas lms, canvas studio, canvas catalog, try canvas free, column impact data-driven support and communication solution to maximize the use of campus technology. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. all products, impact data-driven support and communication solution to maximize the use of campus technology., services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more., all products, column solutions by need learning management student engagement & success content online programs analytics integrations with partner tools solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators, solutions by need learning management student engagement & success content online programs analytics integrations with partner tools, learning management, student engagement & success, content, online programs, analytics, integrations with partner tools, solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators, for administrators, for it/technologists, for educators, resources column by type articles research infographics guides & e-books webinars videos case studies customer stories all resources column centers the study hall articles, videos, stories, and news about our products, edtech, and education. our community share ideas, ask and answer questions, access guides, and connect with peers. canvas network modify and use online courses from educators and institutions worldwide. integrations see how we integrate with your sis, custom apps, and hundreds of external edu apps. column state of assessment in k-12 education learn more, column by type articles research infographics guides & e-books webinars videos case studies customer stories all resources, by type articles research infographics guides & e-books webinars videos case studies customer stories all resources, articles, research, infographics, guides & e-books, webinars, videos, case studies, customer stories, all resources, column centers the study hall articles, videos, stories, and news about our products, edtech, and education. our community share ideas, ask and answer questions, access guides, and connect with peers. canvas network modify and use online courses from educators and institutions worldwide. integrations see how we integrate with your sis, custom apps, and hundreds of external edu apps., centers the study hall articles, videos, stories, and news about our products, edtech, and education. our community share ideas, ask and answer questions, access guides, and connect with peers. canvas network modify and use online courses from educators and institutions worldwide. integrations see how we integrate with your sis, custom apps, and hundreds of external edu apps., the study hall articles, videos, stories, and news about our products, edtech, and education., our community share ideas, ask and answer questions, access guides, and connect with peers., canvas network modify and use online courses from educators and institutions worldwide., integrations see how we integrate with your sis, custom apps, and hundreds of external edu apps., column state of assessment in k-12 education learn more, state of assessment in k-12 education learn more, news & events column by type instructurecon online 2022 instructurecon online 2021 webinars media resources brand guide press releases column on-demand webinar crafting the perfect lms transition plan watch now, column by type instructurecon online 2022 instructurecon online 2021 webinars media resources brand guide press releases, by type instructurecon online 2022 instructurecon online 2021 webinars media resources brand guide press releases, instructurecon online 2022, instructurecon online 2021, webinars, media resources, brand guide, press releases, column on-demand webinar crafting the perfect lms transition plan watch now, on-demand webinar crafting the perfect lms transition plan watch now, about us column the company our story leadership careers investor relations contact us we value privacy security accessibility the edtech collective our partner ecosystem become a partner column work with us instructure careers watch the video, column the company our story leadership careers investor relations contact us we value privacy security accessibility the edtech collective our partner ecosystem become a partner, the company our story leadership careers investor relations contact us, our story, leadership, careers, investor relations, contact us, we value privacy security accessibility, privacy, security, accessibility, the edtech collective our partner ecosystem become a partner, our partner ecosystem, become a partner, column work with us instructure careers watch the video, work with us instructure careers watch the video, k-12 k-12 solutions column canvas the hub of your digital classroom that serves as the foundation for teaching and learning. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free column mastery the assessment tools and quality content educators need to accelerate learning forward. mastery connect mastery item bank mastery view formative assessments mastery view interim assessments mastery view predictive assessments column elevate powerful analytical tools that provide actionable insights for making impactful decisions. elevate k-12 analytics elevate data quality column impact the data-driven support and communication solution that improves tool adoption within canvas. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. leadership development through the center of leadership & learning, we offer professional development experiences for school and district leaders. all products column solutions by need learning management assessment content online programs analytics professional development integrations with partner tools solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators for students & parents, k-12 solutions column canvas the hub of your digital classroom that serves as the foundation for teaching and learning. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free column mastery the assessment tools and quality content educators need to accelerate learning forward. mastery connect mastery item bank mastery view formative assessments mastery view interim assessments mastery view predictive assessments column elevate powerful analytical tools that provide actionable insights for making impactful decisions. elevate k-12 analytics elevate data quality column impact the data-driven support and communication solution that improves tool adoption within canvas. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. leadership development through the center of leadership & learning, we offer professional development experiences for school and district leaders. all products, column canvas the hub of your digital classroom that serves as the foundation for teaching and learning. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free, canvas the hub of your digital classroom that serves as the foundation for teaching and learning., canvas lms, canvas studio, canvas catalog, try canvas free, column mastery the assessment tools and quality content educators need to accelerate learning forward. mastery connect mastery item bank mastery view formative assessments mastery view interim assessments mastery view predictive assessments, mastery the assessment tools and quality content educators need to accelerate learning forward., mastery connect, mastery item bank, mastery view formative assessments, mastery view interim assessments, mastery view predictive assessments, column elevate powerful analytical tools that provide actionable insights for making impactful decisions. elevate k-12 analytics elevate data quality, elevate powerful analytical tools that provide actionable insights for making impactful decisions., elevate k-12 analytics, elevate data quality, column impact the data-driven support and communication solution that improves tool adoption within canvas. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. leadership development through the center of leadership & learning, we offer professional development experiences for school and district leaders. all products, impact the data-driven support and communication solution that improves tool adoption within canvas., services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more., leadership development through the center of leadership & learning, we offer professional development experiences for school and district leaders., all products, column solutions by need learning management assessment content online programs analytics professional development integrations with partner tools solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators for students & parents, solutions by need learning management assessment content online programs analytics professional development integrations with partner tools, learning management, assessment, content, online programs, analytics, professional development, integrations with partner tools, solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators for students & parents, for administrators, for it/technologists, for educators, for students & parents, higher education higher education solutions column canvas modern tools that elevate the higher ed experience whether virtual, hybrid, or in-person. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free column impact data-driven support and communication solution to maximize the use of campus technology. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. all products column solutions by need learning management student engagement & success content online programs analytics integrations with partner tools solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators, higher education solutions column canvas modern tools that elevate the higher ed experience whether virtual, hybrid, or in-person. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free column impact data-driven support and communication solution to maximize the use of campus technology. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. all products, column canvas modern tools that elevate the higher ed experience whether virtual, hybrid, or in-person. canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog try canvas free, canvas modern tools that elevate the higher ed experience whether virtual, hybrid, or in-person., canvas lms, canvas studio, canvas catalog, try canvas free, column impact data-driven support and communication solution to maximize the use of campus technology. services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more. all products, impact data-driven support and communication solution to maximize the use of campus technology., services we offer rollout plans, product training, content development, and more., all products, column solutions by need learning management student engagement & success content online programs analytics integrations with partner tools solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators, solutions by need learning management student engagement & success content online programs analytics integrations with partner tools, learning management, student engagement & success, content, online programs, analytics, integrations with partner tools, solutions by role for administrators for it/technologists for educators, for administrators, for it/technologists, for educators, resources column by type articles research infographics guides & e-books webinars videos case studies customer stories all resources column centers the study hall articles, videos, stories, and news about our products, edtech, and education. our community share ideas, ask and answer questions, access guides, and connect with peers. canvas network modify and use online courses from educators and institutions worldwide. integrations see how we integrate with your sis, custom apps, and hundreds of external edu apps. column state of assessment in k-12 education learn more, column by type articles research infographics guides & e-books webinars videos case studies customer stories all resources, by type articles research infographics guides & e-books webinars videos case studies customer stories all resources, articles, research, infographics, guides & e-books, webinars, videos, case studies, customer stories, all resources, column centers the study hall articles, videos, stories, and news about our products, edtech, and education. our community share ideas, ask and answer questions, access guides, and connect with peers. canvas network modify and use online courses from educators and institutions worldwide. integrations see how we integrate with your sis, custom apps, and hundreds of external edu apps., centers the study hall articles, videos, stories, and news about our products, edtech, and education. our community share ideas, ask and answer questions, access guides, and connect with peers. canvas network modify and use online courses from educators and institutions worldwide. integrations see how we integrate with your sis, custom apps, and hundreds of external edu apps., the study hall articles, videos, stories, and news about our products, edtech, and education., our community share ideas, ask and answer questions, access guides, and connect with peers., canvas network modify and use online courses from educators and institutions worldwide., integrations see how we integrate with your sis, custom apps, and hundreds of external edu apps., column state of assessment in k-12 education learn more, state of assessment in k-12 education learn more, news & events column by type instructurecon online 2022 instructurecon online 2021 webinars media resources brand guide press releases column on-demand webinar crafting the perfect lms transition plan watch now, column by type instructurecon online 2022 instructurecon online 2021 webinars media resources brand guide press releases, by type instructurecon online 2022 instructurecon online 2021 webinars media resources brand guide press releases, instructurecon online 2022, instructurecon online 2021, webinars, media resources, brand guide, press releases, column on-demand webinar crafting the perfect lms transition plan watch now, on-demand webinar crafting the perfect lms transition plan watch now, about us column the company our story leadership careers investor relations contact us we value privacy security accessibility the edtech collective our partner ecosystem become a partner column work with us instructure careers watch the video, column the company our story leadership careers investor relations contact us we value privacy security accessibility the edtech collective our partner ecosystem become a partner, the company our story leadership careers investor relations contact us, our story, leadership, careers, investor relations, contact us, we value privacy security accessibility, privacy, security, accessibility, the edtech collective our partner ecosystem become a partner, our partner ecosystem, become a partner, column work with us instructure careers watch the video, work with us instructure careers watch the video, americas north america english brazil português latin america español, north america english, brazil português, latin america español, asia pacific australia english, australia english, europe germany deutsch spain español united kingdom english benelux dutch, germany deutsch, spain español, united kingdom english, benelux dutch, try canvas free, corp edu, support, contact us, log in canvas mastery connect elevate data sync student eportfolio, canvas, mastery connect, elevate data sync, student eportfolio, instructure learning platform canvas lms canvas studio canvas catalog assessment elevate analytics services leadership development all products, canvas lms, canvas studio, canvas catalog, assessment, elevate analytics, services, leadership development, all products, resources articles research infographics guides & e-books webinars videos case studies, articles, research, infographics, guides & e-books, webinars, videos, case studies, centers the study hall our community canvas network integrations, the study hall, our community, canvas network, integrations, events news & events webinars media resources press releases, news & events, webinars, media resources, press releases, customers k-12 higher ed, k-12, higher ed, about us our story about canvas leadership partners careers investor relations privacy security accessibility contact us, our story, about canvas, leadership, partners, careers, investor relations, privacy, security, accessibility, contact us, privacy, california privacy notice, do not sell my personal information, modern slavery act, acceptable use, acceptable use international, data processing, status, linkedin, twitter, facebook, instagram]