[actress | aquaman, amber laura heard was born in austin, texas, to patricia paige heard (née parsons), an internet researcher, and david c. heard (david clinton heard), a contractor. she has english, irish, scottish, german, and welsh ancestry. heard appeared in the academy award-nominated film, north country (2005), ..., actor | sweeney todd: the demon barber of fleet street, johnny depp is perhaps one of the most versatile actors of his day and age in hollywood. he was born john christopher depp ii in owensboro, kentucky, on june 9, 1963, to betty sue (wells), who worked as a waitress, and john christopher depp, a civil engineer. depp was raised in florida. he dropped ..., actor | the legend of tarzan, alexander johan hjalmar skarsgård was born in stockholm, sweden and is the eldest son of famed actor stellan skarsgård. among his siblings are actors gustaf skarsgård, bill skarsgård, and valter skarsgård. for most of his formative years, his father was an acclaimed actor in europe but had not yet ..., actress | orange is the new black, natasha lyonne is an american stage, film, and television actress. as a young child, she was signed by the ford modeling agency and, at the age of six, she was cast as "opal" on pee-wee's playhouse (1986), which was quickly followed by film appearances in heartburn (1986), written by nora ephron, ..., actor | there will be blood, an actor for all seasons and all kinds of roles (from dark, difficult characters to more loving ones) paul dano has an extensive body work that includes working with directors such as paul thomas anderson, steve mcqueen, dayton & ferris, ang lee, denis villenueve and paolo sorrentino; acting with ..., actress | mad max: fury road, zoë isabella kravitz, the daughter of singer/actor lenny kravitz and actress lisa bonet, was born on december 1, 1988 in los angeles, california. she is of half african-american (from her father's mother and her mother's father) and half ashkenazi jewish (from her father's father and her mother's ..., actor | face/off, nicolas cage was born nicolas kim coppola in long beach, california, the son of comparative literature professor august coppola (whose brother is director francis ford coppola) and dancer/choreographer joy vogelsang. he is of italian (father) and polish and german (mother) descent. cage changed his..., actor | heartstopper, rising british actor, kit connor landed his first film role aged eight in the lead role of "tom" in warner bros. pictures' get santa (2014). since then, he has had roles in the guernsey literary and potato peel pie society (2018), the mercy (2018) and slaughterhouse rulez (2018). most recently and ..., actor | the killing of a sacred deer, barry came to prominence in the 2017 film 'the killing of a sacred deer' with his truly terrifying portrayal of martin,an american teenager exacting a grisly revenge on drunken surgeon colin farrell, but he was not an american nor a teen-ager, born in dublin on 17th october 1992 and has a brother ..., actress | g.i. joe: the rise of cobra, sienna rose diana miller was born in new york city, but was raised in london, united kingdom. her father, edwin "ed" miller, who is american-born, is an investment banker and a dealer in modern chinese paintings. her mother, josephine "jo" miller, was a south african model and a personal assistant ..., actor | ex machina, oscar isaac was born óscar isaac hernández estrada in guatemala, to a guatemalan mother, maría eugenia, and a cuban father, oscar gonzalo hernández-cano, a pulmonologist. oscar was raised in miami, florida. before he became an actor, he played lead guitar and sang vocals in his band the blinking ..., actor | twilight, robert douglas thomas pattinson was born may 13, 1986 in london, england, to richard pattinson, a car dealer importing vintage cars, and clare pattinson (née charlton), who worked as a booker at a model agency. he grew up in barnes, southwest london with two older sisters. robert discovered his ..., actress | the wilds, sophia ali was born on november 7, 1995 in san diego, california, usa. she is an actress and writer, known for the wilds (2020), uncharted (2022) and grey's anatomy (2005)., actress | the queen's gambit, anya-josephine marie taylor-joy (born 16 april 1996) is a british-american actress. she is best known for her roles as beth harmon in the queen's gambit (2020), thomasin in the period horror film the vvitch: a new-england folktale (2015), as casey cooke in the horror-thriller split (2016), and as ..., actor | the lobster, colin farrell is one of ireland's biggest stars in hollywood and abroad. his film presence has been filled with memorable roles that range from an inwardly tortured hit man, to an adventurous explorer, a determined-but-failing writer, and the greatest military leader in history. farrell was born on ..., actress | 28 weeks later, british actress imogen poots was born in hammersmith, london, england, the daughter of english-born fiona (goodall), a journalist, and trevor poots, a northern ireland-born television producer. she was educated at bute house preparatory school for girls, queen's gate school for girls and latymer ..., actress | blade runner 2049, ana de armas was born in cuba on april 30, 1988. at the age of 14, she began her studies at the national theatre school of havana, where she graduated after 4 years. at the age of 16, she made her first film, una rosa de francia (2006), directed by manuel gutiérrez aragón. a few titles came after ..., actor | hitman: agent 47, rupert friend was born on october 1, 1981 in oxfordshire, england. he is an actor and writer, known for hitman: agent 47 (2015), the death of stalin (2017) and the young victoria (2009). he has been married to aimee mullins since may 1, 2016., actress | ramy, may calamawy (born october 28, 1986) is a bahraini born, egyptian-palestinian actress. she completed her undergrad in acting at emerson college and continued her studies at william esper. she is known for the hulu series ramy, marvel's moon knight for disney+, national geographic's the long road ..., actress | tron, actress and activist olivia wilde is a modern day renaissance woman, starring in many acclaimed film productions, while simultaneously giving back to the community. she was born on march 10, 1984 in new york city. her parents are leslie cockburn (née leslie corkill redlich) and andrew cockburn. her ..., director | the lighthouse, robert eggers was born on july 7, 1983 in lee, new hampshire, usa. he is a production designer and director, known for the lighthouse (2019), the vvitch: a new-england folktale (2015) and the northman (2022)., actor | better call saul, michael mando was born in quebec city, canada. his mother hails from guinea, and his dad (who raised him and his two brothers as a single parent) was a doctor of chemistry from germany. he spent most of his childhood growing up in accra (ghana) and abidjan (ivory coast) then moved to beirut (..., actor | spider-man: homecoming, thomas stanley holland was born in kingston-upon-thames, surrey, to nicola elizabeth (frost), a photographer, and dominic holland (dominic anthony holland), who is a comedian and author. his paternal grandparents were from the isle of man and ireland, respectively. he lives with his parents and ..., actress | the hunt, betty gilpin was born on july 21, 1986 in new york city, new york, usa. she is an actress and producer, known for the hunt (2020), isn't it romantic (2019) and the tomorrow war (2021). she has been married to cosmo pfeil since august 6, 2016., actress | sex education, born 4th january 1996 in le mans (france) to a british mother and a french father. she moved to the uk at the age of 17 to study english language and literature at the university of leeds (2013-2016). after directing and appearing in various stage productions there, she started to pursue a career ..., actor | 13 hours, pablo tell schreiber was born in ymir, british columbia, canada, to lorraine reaveley, a canadian psychotherapist, and tell schreiber, an american actor. his paternal half-brother is actor liev schreiber. pablo, who is named after chilean poet pablo neruda, was raised in ymir, and moved to seattle,..., actress | halo, charlie murphy is an award-winning actress, known for peaky blinders (2013-2022), happy valley (2014-2022) and '71 (2014). she features as series regular makee in the halo tv adaptation of the popular video game series for paramount / amblin. she is the recipient of four ifta awards as best actress ..., actor | bridgerton, jonathan stuart bailey is an english actor. known for his roles on stage and screen, he began his career as a child performer in royal shakespeare company productions when he was seven years old, and by eight was performing as gavroche in a west end production of les misérables. since then, he has ..., producer | the batman, matthew george "matt" reeves was born april 27, 1966 in rockville center, new york, usa and is a writer, director and producer. reeves began making movies at age eight, directing friends and using a wind-up camera. he befriended filmmaker j.j. abrams when both were 13 years old and a public-access ..., actress | better call saul, rhea seehorn studied painting and drawing from a young age, following in the footsteps of her father and grandmother. although she continued in the visual arts, she also had a growing passion for the movies and theatre and secretly wanted to become an actor. not knowing how to pursue the profession,..., actress | chicago, renée kathleen zellweger was born on april 25, 1969, in katy, texas, her mother, kjellfrid irene (andreassen), is a norwegian-born former nurse and midwife, of norwegian, kven (finnish), and swedish descent. her father, emil erich zellweger, is a swiss-born engineer. the two married in 1963. renée ..., actor | training day, ethan green hawke was born on november 6, 1970 in austin, texas, to leslie carole (green), a charity worker, and james steven hawke, an insurance actuary. his parents were students at the university of texas at the time but divorced when ethan was 5 years old. his mother raised him alone for the ..., writer | what we do in the shadows, taika waititi, also known as taika cohen, hails from the raukokore region of the east coast of new zealand, and is the son of robin (cohen), a teacher, and taika waititi, an artist and farmer. his father is maori (te-whanau-a-apanui), and his mother is of ashkenazi jewish, irish, scottish, and ..., actress | baby driver, eiza gonzález reyna is a mexican actress and singer. she was born on january 30, 1990 in mexico city, mexico, to carlos gonzález and glenda reyna. her mother is a yesteryear mexican model. she has one elder brother, yulen. she lost her father in a motorcycle accident when she was just 12. later in ..., actress | victoria, jenna coleman is best known for her bafta-nominated performance as clara in doctor who and for playing the title role in itv's emmy-nominated series victoria. she was most recently seen in a lead role as marie-andrée leclerc in the dark crime drama the serpent for bbc and netflix opposite tahar ..., zara phythian is known for accident man 2 (2022), tribal get out alive (2020) and doctor strange (2016). she has been married to victor marke since 2015., actor | christopher and his kind, alexander dreymon was born february 7, 1983 in germany and grew up in france, switzerland and the united states. he studied in paris and trained three years at drama centre london. dreymon worked on stage in london and paris and made his screen debut alongside doctor who star matt smith in the ..., actress | high maintenance, britt lower was born on august 2, 1985 in illinois, usa. she is an actress and director, known for high maintenance (2016), casual (2015) and mr. roosevelt (2017)., actress | better call saul, actress julie ann emery is best known for her breakout recurring role in "better call saul," amc's highly buzzed-about prequel to "breaking bad." she can be seen as a series regular in amc's fan favorite, "preacher." julie ann takes on the important role of lara featherstone, one of the grail's ..., actress | ozark, julia garner is an american actress and model. she has appeared in the films martha marcy may marlene (2011), the perks of being a wallflower (2012), sin city: a dame to kill for (2014), and played leading roles in electrick children (2012), we are what we are (2013) and grandma (2015). she also ..., actress | pacific rim: uprising, accustomed to airplanes and distant countries since she could recall, adria arjona was born in puerto rico and raised in mexico city. falling asleep in guatemala and waking up in argentina was not out of norm for her. she is the daughter of a puerto rican mother, leslie, and a guatemalan father, ..., actor | avengers: endgame, rugged features and a natural charm have worked for josh brolin, the son of actor james brolin. he has played roles as a policeman, a hunter, and the president of the united states. brolin was born february 12, 1968 in santa monica, california, to jane cameron (agee), a texas-born wildlife activist,..., actress | suicide squad, margot elise robbie was born on july 2, 1990 in dalby, queensland, australia to scottish parents. her mother, sarie kessler, is a physiotherapist, and her father, is doug robbie. she comes from a family of four children, having two brothers and one sister. she graduated from somerset college in ..., actor | hacksaw ridge, andrew russell garfield was born in los angeles, california, to a british mother, lynn, and american father, richard garfield. when he was three, he moved to surrey, u.k., with his parents and older brother. he is of english and polish jewish heritage. andrew was raised in a middle class family, ..., actress | castle, stana katic recently finished her three season arc as the star and executive producer of amazon's tv series absentia. katic's feature film work includes: cbgb, about the punk rock club in nyc; big sur, based on the jack kerouac novel; frank miller's film the spirit; robert benton's feast of love; ..., actress | sex education, simone ashley was born on march 30, 1995. she is an actress, known for sex education (2019), broadchurch (2013) and pokémon: detective pikachu (2019)., actress | aladdin, naomi scott is a multi-talented actor, singer and songwriter. she stars as "jasmine" in disney's blockbuster live action remake aladdin (2019), alongside mena massoud and will smith, directed by guy ritchie. disney released the film in may 2019, and it became one of the biggest films of the year. ..., actress | 10 cloverfield lane, mary elizabeth winstead is an actress known for her versatile work in a variety of film and television projects. possibly most known for her role as ramona flowers in scott pilgrim vs. the world (2010), she has also starred in critically acclaimed independent films such as smashed (2012), for which..., actress | jurassic world dominion, dichen lachman was born in kathmandu, nepal, to a tibetan mother and australian father. until the age of seven, she lived in kathmandu with her parents and extended family. following that, she moved to adelaide, australia, with her parents. after dropping out of university, dichen took up acting ..., actress | spider-man: homecoming, zendaya (which means "to give thanks" in the language of shona) is an american actress and singer born in oakland, california. she began her career appearing as a child model working for macy's, mervyns and old navy. she was a backup dancer before gaining prominence for her role as rocky blue on ..., © 1990-2022 by imdb.com, inc.][match all (sorted by popularity ascending), 1. amber heard, 2. johnny depp, 3. alexander skarsgård, 4. natasha lyonne, 5. paul dano, 6. zoë kravitz, 7. nicolas cage, 8. kit connor, 9. barry keoghan, 10. sienna miller, 11. oscar isaac, 12. robert pattinson, 13. sophia ali, 14. anya taylor-joy, 15. colin farrell, 16. imogen poots, 17. ana de armas, 18. rupert friend, 19. may calamawy, 20. olivia wilde, 21. robert eggers, 22. michael mando, 23. tom holland, 24. betty gilpin, 25. emma mackey, 26. pablo schreiber, 27. charlie murphy, 28. jonathan bailey, 29. matt reeves, 30. rhea seehorn, 31. renée zellweger, 32. ethan hawke, 33. taika waititi, 34. eiza gonzález, 35. jenna coleman, 36. zara phythian, 37. alexander dreymon, 38. britt lower, 39. julie ann emery, 40. julia garner, 41. adria arjona, 42. josh brolin, 43. margot robbie, 44. andrew garfield, 45. stana katic, 46. simone ashley, 47. naomi scott, 48. mary elizabeth winstead, 49. dichen lachman, 50. zendaya, recently viewed]imdb: match all (sorted by popularity ascending) - imdb[starmeter][all, titles, tv episodes, celebs, companies, keywords, , fully supported, , english (united states), , , français (canada), français (france), deutsch (deutschland), हिंदी (भारत), italiano (italia), português (brasil), español (españa), español (méxico), , , , , , get the imdb app, view full site, help, site index, imdbpro, box office mojo, imdb developer, press room, advertising, jobs, conditions of use, privacy policy, interest-based ads, ]