[this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper., the american people are increasingly concerned about public safety, and it’s easy to see why. a spike in murder rates led to the deadliest year on record for many major cities last year. for the first time on record, more than 100,000 americans died from drug overdoses during a 12-month period. and it seems like headlines are dominated by subway attacks, gang shootouts, and other terrifying incidents., last monday, a leaked draft opinion from justice samuel alito revealed that the supreme court is planning to overrule roe v wade and planned parenthood v casey – effectively overturning the federal right to an abortion., right now, women across the country are weighing their options to determine who they’ll vote for on election day., putin’s russia is going down the drain. even the may 9 parade was a fizzle. on the victory day celebrations, russia lost hands down to zelenskyyy and ukraine., right now, women across the country are weighing their options to determine who they’ll vote for on election day., the american people are increasingly concerned about public safety, and it’s easy to see why. a spike in murder rates led to the deadliest year on record for many major cities last year. for the first time on record, more than 100,000 americans died from drug overdoses during a 12-month period. and it seems like headlines are dominated by subway attacks, gang shootouts, and other terrifying incidents., last monday, a leaked draft opinion from justice samuel alito revealed that the supreme court is planning to overrule roe v wade and planned parenthood v casey – effectively overturning the federal right to an abortion., pope francis recently shocked many by positing parity between vladimir putin and russia on one hand, and ukraine and nato on the other. the holy father insisted both are to blame for the raging war. , you’re doing a great job, mamas!  that’s what i want you to know, and i think god does too. , many years ago, our family of nine left australia for the united states with no guaranteed income, as a millennial “mama bear” to four school-aged children, let me tell you what mama bears want more than anything else this mother’s day., at the kentucky derby on saturday the sleek muscled dark bay, grey and chestnut thoroughbreds lining up will run one and quarter miles in just over two minutes as 170,000 fans cheer., greg gutfeld discusses on "gutfeld!" how elites are finally admitting that remote schooling was a failure., fox news host tucker carlson shreds violence in wake of pro-abortion protesters targeting supreme court justices on 'tucker carlson tonight.', fox news contributor joe concha dissects how hollywood and media political correctness may have contributed to the attack on the renowned comedian., russian president vladimir putin’s press secretary dmitriy peskov categorically denied reports wednesday that putin was mobilizing the entire russian nation for to move to a full-scale war on ukraine on may 9th, the 77th anniversary of russia’s victory over nazi germany in world war ii., in a series of federal bailouts since the onset of covid-19 in march 2020, public schools have received $190 billion extra to spend. despite this windfall, a lot remains unspent, and states and even some public school districts have been accumulating record rainy day funds., the last thing america needs is a taxpayer-funded thought-police bureau that monitors public utterances,, there is increased speculation that on may 9, 2022, russian president vladimir putin will make a major announcement regarding the invasion of ukraine, potentially including a formal declaration of war against the people of ukraine., violent antifa activists are active again in portland and seattle, inspired by a leaked draft of a supreme court decision this week reversing roe v. wade., greg gutfeld discusses how the left continues to try and shut down free speech on "gutfeld!", tucker carlson shreds the left's response to a possible overturn of roe v. wade and weighs in on their response to the russia-ukraine conflict on 'tucker carlson tonight.', it was just reported late last month that incidents of antisemitism in the united states rose this year by 34% to record highs, continuing a dangerous upward spiral., america’s sovereignty is under attack and so are the brave men and women who served our country. the u.s.-mexico border is facing an overwhelming surge in illegal crossings, where in roughly 18 months, more than three million immigrants have illegally entered the united states., very little in life leaves me speechless. but when news broke monday night that someone leaked an entire draft of a majority opinion by justice samuel alito in dobbs v. jackson women’s health organization, i was flabbergasted., prayer isn’t a get-out-of-your-problems free card. but we do know there are some prayers that god always answers., the biden administration announced the establishment of the disinformation governance board (dgb) last week within the homeland security department ., last weekend, wisconsinites watching the nightly news saw a story that’s become all too common in our state’s largest city: 20 were people shot in milwaukee over the course of 18 shootings. three were killed, including a 13-year-old girl., greg gutfeld discusses how public health is being abused to curtail people's rights on "gutfeld!", after teaching in elementary, middle, and high school science classes, and directing the science teachers and curriculum for a 35,000 student district, i’ve concluded that our modern methods of managing student behavior are an abysmal failure., fox news host tucker carlson gives his take on the supreme court document leak suggesting the overturn of roe v. wade on 'tucker carlson tonight.', the news that elon musk had closed a deal to purchase twitter led those in the leftist media to the most predictable response possible. they called him a racist. an msnbc correspondent says he’s doing it to protect the speech of straight white men. many more concerned progressives warned vaguely of the consequences for “marginalized communities.”, for years now, the left has attempted to change the results in cases by intimidating supreme court justices., get the recap of top opinion commentary and original content throughout the week., subscribed, you've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!, this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper.][opinion, biden administration letting southern border crisis rage on, the end of roe v wade hurts you, too, even if you don't plan to march, on election day in november, women will determine control in washington , editor's picks, opinion clips]opinion | fox news[][u.s., politics, media, opinion, business, entertainment, sports, lifestyle, weather, tv, fox nation, listen, more, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, facebook, twitter, instagram, rss, email, , , crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, facebook, twitter, instagram, youtube, flipboard, linkedin, slack, rss, newsletters, spotify, iheartradio, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, accessibility statement]