[this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper., immigration is a hotly contested issue in the united states. fox news reporters bring you the latest on the border crisis, green card news, migrant caravans and amnesty legislation in congress., the u.s. issues approximately 140,000 employment-based green cards every year., america’s foreign-born population set a new record at 44.8 million people in 2018, according to pew research center., illegal immigration primarily occurs at the u.s.’s southern border with mexico, which border patrol agents are tasked with protecting., the number of illegal immigrants in the u.s. is estimated to be at least 11 million., the 2021 border crisis saw a surge in migrant encounters along the southern border., migrant deportations are handled by immigration and customs enforcement (ice), which falls under the department of homeland security., the american people are increasingly concerned about public safety, and it’s easy to see why. a spike in murder rates led to the deadliest year on record for many major cities last year. for the first time on record, more than 100,000 americans died from drug overdoses during a 12-month period. and it seems like headlines are dominated by subway attacks, gang shootouts, and other terrifying incidents., rio grande city, texas mayor joel villarreal weighs in on gov. greg abbott's idea to withhold illegal immigrants from texas schools., a u.s. customs and border protection agent was arrested and charged with assault and mistreatment of a juvenile in custody in southwest texas friday., texas gov. greg abbott says the state is considering a challenge to a 1982 supreme court case that required that public schools teach illegal immigrant children as texas and other border states face the prospect of a massive migrant surge., former acting department of homeland security secretary chad wolf told “fox news live” saturday that there is “no end in sight” for the border crisis, and he’s very concerned for americans amid the migrant surge., rep. carlos gimenez, r-fla., argues the biden administration needs to be watched in its handling of the border crisis., former acting department of homeland security secretary chad wolf tells ‘fox news live’ he’s very concerned for americans and border agents amid the migrant surge., former acting department of homeland security secretary chad wolf provides insight into how the biden administration is poorly handling the border crisis., a senior department of homeland security official is predicting the number of migrant encounters at the southern border will decrease once the biden administration lifts the title 42 public health order later this month, rep. august pfluger, r-texas, said "the system is blinking red" as the number of illegal immigrants surges friday on "the ingraham angle.", this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper.][immigration, here are some key immigration facts:, latest videos]immigration | fox news[][u.s., politics, media, opinion, business, entertainment, sports, lifestyle, weather, tv, fox nation, listen, more, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, facebook, twitter, instagram, rss, email, the u.s. issues approximately 140,000 employment-based green cards every year., america’s foreign-born population set a new record at 44.8 million people in 2018, according to pew research center., illegal immigration primarily occurs at the u.s.’s southern border with mexico, which border patrol agents are tasked with protecting., the number of illegal immigrants in the u.s. is estimated to be at least 11 million., the 2021 border crisis saw a surge in migrant encounters along the southern border., migrant deportations are handled by immigration and customs enforcement (ice), which falls under the department of homeland security., crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, facebook, twitter, instagram, youtube, flipboard, linkedin, slack, rss, newsletters, spotify, iheartradio, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, accessibility statement]