[this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper., fox news religion correspondent lauren green discusses how protests have begun over a possible roe v. wade overturn and how these activist groups are targeting churches on ‘special report.’, as reports continue to circulate that pro-abortion activists are planning mother's day protests on sunday at catholic churches in america because of a potential overturn of roe v. wade by the supreme court, a number of faith leaders shared their disdain for, and disappointment about, any such "anti-mother's day," anti-faith activity., they urged restraint, prayer, calm — but also a defense of churches and ministries in light of reports of vandalism and other activity against houses of worship., ralph reed, chairman of the faith & freedom coalition, shared a statement this weekend that said, in part, "an attack on any church is an attack on the entire faith community, and represents anti-christian bigotry that is a cancer on the body politic. it may also be a federal crime, depending on the level of vandalism or violence." , "as a christian and pastor, i will not be persuaded to abandon the fight for the innocent lives of the unborn — nor to recant my faith in christ.", faith leaders also remain steadfast in their support of the right to life for unborn children and of the freedom to worship in america., check out the following comments to fox news digital for sunday, mother's day, may 8, 2022., pastor lucas miles of nfluence church in granger, indiana, also a faculty speaker at summit ministries, said he saw, just this week, a "disdain for life" — and he's concerned about it., "as one of the first people to arrive at the steps of the supreme court on monday evening after news of the leak broke, i witnessed firsthand the venom and disdain for life embodied within the pro-abortion advocates present there," he said., a view of the supreme court building in washington, d.c. — which is now bordered by tall fencing, given the possibility of threats to the court after the leaked roe v. wade draft opinion.  (ap), the pastor said, "while i support everyone’s right to peaceful protest, i’m horrified by reports of violence and intimidation toward christians over the court’s potential decision to overturn roe v wade.", "one of the greatest freedoms in america is the freedom of religion and our right to gather freely in worship.", "vandalizing churches, blocking houses of worship or terrorizing individuals on their way to worship is reprehensible," added miles of summit.org to fox news digital — "and anyone who participates in behavior like this should be punished to the full extent of the law.", faith leaders react to possibility that scotus may overturn roe v. wade, "one of the greatest freedoms in america is the freedom of religion and our right to gather freely in worship.", said one faith leader, "i pray for my fellow pastors and church leaders around this country to stand strong and not be intimidated" by protests against those who stand for the lives of the unborn. , "as a christian and pastor, i will not be persuaded to abandon the fight for the innocent lives of the unborn — nor to recant my faith in christ.", usp donated to pro-choice group said to be targeting churches, pastor miles added, "i pray for my fellow pastors and church leaders around this country to stand strong and to not be intimidated, nor disheartened, by these acts.", judge phil ginn, president of southern evangelical seminary in charlotte, n.c., said, "i’m not sure what will happen across america if the pro-abortion folks show up at christian churches. however, i can tell you what should happen." , "if they come to my church respectfully," said ginn, "they will be welcomed and treated with commensurate respect. who knows — they might actually hear the truth, which has the capacity to change their lives for eternity." , "there is a much higher jurisdiction than scotus," said judge phil ginn to fox news digital this week, just ahead of mother's day on sunday., however, he added, "all who would stand in contempt and disruption of god should realize that they aren’t the first ones to try to stifle the good news of the gospel.", "ultimately, god has promised that his word will not return void — and that the gates of hell will not prevail against his church," he said., "as you consider your options, please choose wisely — and choose life here and in eternity.", "there is a court of much higher jurisdiction than scotus," said judge ginn. "for repentant sinners, it offers eternal life through the life, death and resurrection of jesus christ. for defiant, unrepentant sinners, there is a fate much worse than death on this earth.", so, "as you consider your options," he said, "please choose wisely — and choose life here and in eternity.", bethany bomberger, together with her husband, ryan bomberger, is co-founder of the radiance foundation, a faith-based nonprofit in northern virginia. she told fox news digital in an emailed comment on friday, "motherhood is the unique and powerful gift that only women can give." , the bomberger family, with dad ryan and mom bethany, in the center.  (the radiance foundation), she explained, "i faced an unplanned pregnancy in my late 20s as a teacher. i was single, but i refused to allow fear to end my daughter’s life.", "i married an amazing man who was conceived in rape but adopted in love — and he adopted her as his own. we have three other wonderful children.", "to protest on a day set aside to celebrate the beauty of motherhood reveals the utter brokenness and irony of pro-abortion activism.", added bomberger, "to protest on a day that is set aside to celebrate the beauty of motherhood reveals the utter brokenness and irony of pro-abortion activism.", "they can only have their voices heard because their mothers didn’t abort them.", james spencer, phd, head of the d.l. moody center (dlmc) in northfield, mass., told fox news digital, "the diverse reactions to the leaked opinion regarding the roe v. wade point to the deep and differing positions americans hold about abortion.", pro-life demonstrators confront pro-choice counterparts in january 2006 in washington, d.c. abortion has been legal in the u.s. since the supreme court's roe v. wade decision in 1973. (afp photo/karen bleier), "with the news of planned protests at catholic churches surfacing, christians should prepare to meet the frustrations of pro-choice advocates with gentleness rather than bravado."  , "the strength of our convictions is not revealed in any forthcoming court decision or in a ‘win’ for the pro-life movement — but in the character we exhibit as we follow christ in loving those who oppose us," added spencer., "christians should prepare to meet the frustrations of pro-choice advocates with gentleness rather than bravado.", he also said, "i pray that those who choose to participate in the protests will see christ in the responses of the churches they protest — and come to see that he is the way, the truth and the life.", rev. samuel rodriguez of sacramento, calif., who is with the national hispanic leadership conference, told fox news digital this weekend, "protest and disruptions to churches by pro-abortion advocates on mother's day will result" in a few things. , "disrupters attempting to cause harm will be met by people of faith committed to saving lives.", "protesters filled with anger will be met by worshippers filled with love," he said. also: "disrupters attempting to cause harm will be met by people of faith committed to saving lives.", "if these activities do take place," he added, "it will present a clear picture of the sharp ideological contrast that undergirds this very delicate conversation.", debbie wuthnow, president of ivoterguide in austin, texas, told fox news digital, "while abortion groups are targeting our churches and justices who have yet to hand down a decision on a case, may the attention of americans go to the two bedrocks of freedom that are under attack: freedom of religion and the family.", a delighted mom cuddles her beautiful newborn. faith leaders remain steadfast in their support of life, with one noting that mothers make sacrifices "every day so that even those who protest" have the "freedom of speech" here in america. (istock), she added, "we fully support the catholic church and every other denomination in taking a stand for life.", "we honor the sacrifices — large and small — that mothers make every day so that even those who protest were given life and freedom of speech.", florida-based mom finds way to pay off $40k in student debt, "protests cannot dim the light of freedom nor the beauty of motherhood," she added., meeke addison of tupelo, mississippi, co-host of american family radio’s "airing the addisons," said that "the threat and intimidation coming from liberal activists is dangerous.", "it’s alarming that we have an administration unwilling to condemn this behavior," she noted. , "that activists would disrupt the sacred gatherings of christians on mother’s day is startling, but it is also telling.", "that activists would disrupt the sacred gatherings of christians on mother’s day is startling, but it is also telling. there is a tremendous lack of self-awareness in these planned acts of terror.", she added, "while these violent activists are warring for artificial ‘rights,’ they are, in fact, robbing other americans of their actual rights.", a gorgeous little one is shown at home. "children will celebrate their mothers" on this mother's day 2022, said one woman of faith. (istock), "unlike roe’s opinion — which pulled a constitutional ‘right’ to murder babies out of thin air — the first amendment solidly protects the free exercise of religion for americans.", florida rabbi, for mother's day, honors his mom's tenacity and faith , "this sunday, in churches all across this country," she said, "children will celebrate their mothers, thanking them for life and all the sacrifices which characterize motherhood.", click here to get the fox news app, "tragically, there will also be less-celebrated mothers who sit silently in regret over their belief of a national lie presented as law. these grieving mothers," addison also said, "will be traumatized again by radicals who pretend they don’t exist.", to learn more — and to view the latest insights of rev. franklin graham on these topics as well — check out this segment on mother's day weekend from "fox & friends.", maureen mackey is managing editor of lifestyle for fox news digital. story tips can be sent on twitter at @maurmack., , parallels of the ark: how noah's journey symbolizes jesus, fun stories about food, relationships, the great outdoors and more., subscribed, you've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!, this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper.][mother's day protests by pro-abortion activists reveal their 'utter brokenness,' say faith leaders, this mother's day, 7 faith leaders urged peace and prayer for life in the face of pro-abortion activism, ‘horrified by reports of violence, intimidation’, ‘who knows — they might actually hear the truth, which has the capacity to change lives’, ‘their voices’ will be heard 'because their mothers didn’t abort them', they need to ‘see christ in the responses of churches they protest’, ‘sharp ideological contrast undergirds this delicate conversation’, ‘protests cannot dim the light of freedom nor the beauty of motherhood’, ‘this sunday, in churches across the country, children will celebrate their mothers’ ]mother's day protests by pro-abortion activists reveal their 'utter brokenness,' say faith leaders | fox news[published, faith leaders react to possibility that scotus may overturn roe v. wade, usp donated to pro-choice group said to be targeting churches, ‘protests cannot dim the light of freedom nor the beauty of motherhood’, florida-based mom finds way to pay off $40k in student debt, florida rabbi, for mother's day, honors his mom's tenacity and faith, click here to get the fox news app][u.s., politics, media, opinion, business, entertainment, sports, lifestyle, weather, tv, fox nation, listen, more, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, facebook, twitter, instagram, rss, email, facebook, twitter, flipboard, comments, print, email, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, facebook, twitter, instagram, youtube, flipboard, linkedin, slack, rss, newsletters, spotify, iheartradio, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, accessibility statement]