[pupils face bullying, harassment and humiliation over the invasion of ukraine, another effect of a war that is overwhelmingly affecting the innocent., the leaked draft opinion that would eliminate the constitutional right to abortion sent mixed signals about what other precedents might be at risk., taiwan’ s shift in approach reflects an acceptance of growing evidence that omicron, while highly transmissible, is less deadly. follow pandemic news., inflation is at the highest level in four decades, but how people experience it can vary greatly. seven questions can help estimate your personal rate., far-right activists are intercepting migrant children and collecting information about their families, based on an unfounded conspiracy theory., the son and namesake of the ousted dictator edged closer to a triumph in the presidential election over leni robredo, his closest rival. here’s the latest., filipinos headed to the polls on monday in a hotly contested election that has been described as the most consequential in decades, one that will shape the direction of the country’s fragile democracy. here’s what you need to know →, the two top candidates offered filipino voters a stark choice: ferdinand marcos jr., the son of the ousted dictator ferdinand e. marcos, versus leni robredo, the country’s current vice president, who has served as a check on president rodrigo duterte., early vote counting showed mr. marcos with a commanding lead. he spent decades defending his family against accusations of greed and corruption and downplaying the legacy of his father’s brutal rule. his father was overthrown in a popular revolt., mr. marcos has waited a long time for this moment. “my mom wanted me to run since i was 8 years old,” mr. marcos, who is known by his boyhood nickname, “bongbong,” said in a documentary about his mother., six years of president rodrigo duterte — a strong marcos ally known for his bloody war on drugs and for jailing his critics — may have presaged a marcos family comeback., ms. robredo promised to restore freedoms that have been rolled back under president duterte. perhaps the biggest surprise in this election has been the groundswell of support for ms. robredo from “generation z” and thousands of millennials., the race is being cast as a competition between those who remember the past and those who are accused of trying to distort it, the latest chapter in a brazen effort to absolve the marcoses of wrongdoing., read more about the philippines elections., the new york mayor and representative alexandria ocasio-cortez, from different wings of the democratic party, have not spoken one-on-one in nearly a year., a republican primary between two incumbent house members on tuesday will again test former president donald trump’s grip on his party., this year’s tony awards are the first to recognize shows that opened after the pandemic shutdown, and come as the industry is still struggling to recover., ahead of this week’s final round, we went backstage for this state-versus-state competition based on eurovision. the singers get it. does america?, david leonhardt and helene cooper on the tough choice that vladimir putin presents the u.s., the unseen trauma of america’s drone pilots., in today’s movies, rarely is sex the engine that moves the plot., find our critic’s latest recommendations for old and new books., the colt’s jockey, trainer and owner are anything but racing royalty, but they are the kind of story the sport needs right now., puerto rico’s energy grid has struggled after hurricane maría almost wiped it out in 2017. while solar-power systems can fill gaps, they aren’t cheap., proceedings began monday in boston for the celebrity chef, who once hosted “the chew,” on charges that he groped a young woman in a bar., fully electric vehicles have fewer fires than gasoline-powered and hybrid cars, and their crash protection is at least equivalent., “art must leave a wound,” said the author, one of the most celebrated in new latin american literature., how many words can you make with 7 letters?, get clued in with wordplay, every day., create words using letters around the square., match visual elements and keep your chain going., connect the dots to reveal the hidden picture.][on victory day, putin offers no path to war’s end; zelensky rebuts speech, in europe’s schoolyards, putin’s war hurts russian-speaking children, read a summary of sunday’s developments in ukraine., the u.s. will lift tariffs on ukrainian steel, halting a trump-era measure., advertisement, if roe falls, is same-sex marriage next?, medication abortions are increasing in the u.s. this is what they are and where women get them., midterms updates: pennsylvania is shaping up to be a major battleground over abortion., taiwan pivots from ‘zero covid’ as beijing doubles down, shanghai once represented the glamorous china, but is now a victim of authoritarian excess, our columnist writes., tracking the coronavirus ›, u.s. hot spots ›, vaccinations ›, global hot spots ›, cases rising fastest, other trackers, cases rising fastest, other trackers, what’s your rate of inflation?, business updates: the stock sell-off continued as concerns were renewed about the global economy., qanon joins vigilantes at the southern border, ferdinand marcos jr. takes huge lead in philippines election, a hotly contested election in the philippines, a hotly contested election in the philippines, a hotly contested election in the philippines, a hotly contested election in the philippines, a hotly contested election in the philippines, a hotly contested election in the philippines, a hotly contested election in the philippines, a hotly contested election in the philippines, rift between a.o.c. and eric adams shows what happens when stars collide, trump figures into a political blood feud in west virginia, tony nominations: ‘a strange loop’ leads with 11, including best musical, here’s a full list of this year’s tony nominees., advertisement, gretchen whitmer, i’m a pro-choice governor, and i’m not going to sit on my hands waiting for congress, gail collins and bret stephens, sometimes, history goes backward, jessica bennett, pamela anderson, amber heard and the limits of the feminist redemption plot, peter beinart, biden could make the world safer, but he’s too afraid of the politics, tish harrison warren, if roe is overturned, where should the pro-life movement go next?, margaret renkl, on an endangered river, another toxic disaster is waiting to happen, ‘sway’, clarissa ward: ‘fear and panic are bedfellows’ in ukraine, gabriel winant and theresa brown, would you like your nurse to be overworked and underpaid?, charles m. blow, the supreme court as an instrument of oppression, ezra klein, tiktok may be more dangerous than it looks, a portrait of ed koch’s secret gay life, pamela paul, america, unmasked, maureen dowd, marilyn monroe v. samuel alito, suzanne finnamore, dementia is a place where my mother lives. it is not who she is., bryce covert, we pay to keep the old out of poverty. why won’t we do the same for the young?, the editorial board, america is not ready for the end of roe v. wade, ‘american song contest’ is about the songs, not just the lungs, after an in-game meal of spicy pork and broccoli, a longtime n.h.l. backup became a cult hero., her rash wouldn’t fade, and the itch was ruining her life. can you solve this medical mystery?, advertisement, the morning, listen to ‘the daily’, listen to ‘still processing’, see our read like the wind newsletter, rich strike’s derby win has given horse racing a welcome reboot, where solar is an obvious solution, but still elusive, mario batali goes on trial in sexual misconduct case, the misperception that e.v.s are unsafe is a hurdle to broad adoption, in blow to ruling family, sri lanka’s prime minister quits amid unrest, ncuti gatwa is the new doctor on ‘doctor who’, 3 americans die in mysterious circumstances at bahamas resort, head of u.n. agency resigns after questions arise about loans, taxpayers may foot bill for penn station revitalization, report says, brazil, big food exporter, finds a way to buy russian fertilizer, as tunisia’s democratic experiment unravels, economic collapse looms, a homeless man, 25, is the fourth inmate to die at rikers this year, you’re cleaning all wrong, v.r. ‘reminiscence therapy’ lets seniors relive the past, can covid symptoms rebound after taking paxlovid?, a comprehensive guide to birth control, take the weekly health quiz, advertisement, fernanda melchor explores the human capacity for violence, and grace, ‘into the woods’ review: some enchanted evening, ‘a short time later, fernando was back for another task’, ‘to be or not to be’: is it the question or the point?, seeking spring comfort? try this buttery, vegetable-topped polenta., advertisement, spelling bee, the crossword, letter boxed, tiles, vertex, site information navigation]the new york times canada - breaking news, us news, world news, videos[united states ›, united states ›, united states, cases rising fastest, other trackers, cases rising fastest, other trackers, most consequential in decades, ferdinand marcos jr., leni robredo, mr. marcos, bongbong, president rodrigo duterte, ms. robredo, competition between those who remember the past and those who are accused of trying to distort it][u.s., international, canada, español, 中文, , , world, u.s., politics, n.y., business, opinion, tech, science, health, sports, arts, books, style, food, travel, magazine, t magazine, real estate, video, world, u.s., politics, n.y., business, opinion, tech, science, health, sports, arts, books, style, food, travel, magazine, t magazine, real estate, video, live russia-ukraine war1m ago tony award nominations10m ago philippine presidential election17m ago, russia-ukraine war1m ago, tony award nominations10m ago, philippine presidential election17m ago, president vladimir putin did not signal an escalation of the war in his victory day speech, but falsely depicted his invasion as an extension of the struggle against nazism in europe., in his own speech, president volodymyr zelensky of ukraine accused mr. putin of distorting history. here’s the latest., mo., maine, utah, hawaii, county lookup, mo., maine, utah, hawaii, county lookup, global vaccinations, ‘we want a change’: in the philippines, young people aim to upend an election, ‘we want a change’: in the philippines, young people aim to upend an election, the philippines toppled one marcos. now his son may become president., the philippines toppled one marcos. now his son may become president., , , , , , , , , © 2022 the new york times company, nytco, contact us, accessibility, work with us, advertise, t brand studio, your ad choices, privacy policy, terms of service, terms of sale, site map, canada, international, help, subscriptions]