[this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper., don’t miss a beat in the world of celebrity breaking news and trending celebrity news. from arrests, “i do’s” to viral social media posts, fox news rounds up all of the most important hollywood news every day so you’re always in-the-know., fox news is also your go-to source when it comes to coverage of the entertainment industry. whether hollywood award shows – and their biggest surprises and snubs – peak your interest or you’re figuring out what to view next – our film and tv lists have got you covered – find out the latest in the business world of hollywood. plus, read exclusive one-one-one interviews with exclusive photos and videos., hollywood stars never miss when it comes to delivering head-turning looks and stylish fashion, be sure to check out this page often to see splashy photos – and celebrity gossip – from premieres, red carpets, award shows, and fashion events., who doesn’t love a good royal family story? from the latest on meghan markle and prince harry’s life to prince william and kate middleton’s most recent outing – fox news has all of the news from across the pond – all in one place., former hgtv star christina haack revealed the 6-year-old son she shares with ex-husband tarek el moussa had to be rushed to the hospital on mother's day for an emergency appendectomy., mario batali was once a food network fixture on shows like “molto mario” and “iron chef america.”, the duke of sussex tried his hand at acting for a new five-minute advert that was launched on new zealand tv and youtube., priyanka chopra and nick jonas revealed their daughter spent "100 plus" days in the nicu as they celebrated their first mother's day as a family. the couple welcomed their baby girl via surrogate in january., the trial is on a scheduled one-week break, and closing arguments begin may 27. a legal expert weighs in on what to expect with heard’s cross-examination when the trial resumes., george perez has died from pancreatic cancer, according to a close friend of his. the illustrator was known for his work on the "wonder woman" comic series and "avengers.", former 2019 miss usa cheslie kryst committed suicide jan. 30 this year, and her mother, april simpkins, has opened up about kryst’s secret struggle with high-functioning depression, rebecca romijn reflected on her past relationship with ex-husband john stamos in a conversation with her current husband jerry o'connell. the two talked about the "really fun memories" she had with the "full house" actor., sheryl crow doesn't regret never getting married. the musician revealed she almost got married three times but is "grateful" it never happened., the release date for will smith's upcoming project with apple has reportedly been delayed by the streaming service. "emancipation" will be released sometime in 2023, according to reports., this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper.][celebrity news, industry news and newsmaker interviews, celebrity style, royals, latest videos]celebrity news | fox news[][u.s., politics, media, opinion, business, entertainment, sports, lifestyle, weather, tv, fox nation, listen, more, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, facebook, twitter, instagram, rss, email, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, facebook, twitter, instagram, youtube, flipboard, linkedin, slack, rss, newsletters, spotify, iheartradio, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, accessibility statement]