[early results showed the son of the former dictator well ahead of his rivals in the presidential election, including the country’s vice president, leni robredo., early vote counts point to a lopsided lead for ferdinand marcos jr., voters complain of broken machines and long waits., it’s the most consequential election in the philippines in recent history., political lies have flourished on social media during the campaign., after 36 years, another marcos may lead the philippines., two political clans with an autocratic past seek power together., manila — ferdinand marcos jr., the son and namesake of the ousted dictator, edged closer to a triumph in the presidential election in the philippines on monday as early election data shared by the government put him in a commanding lead over leni robredo, his closest rival., with 70.28 percent of election returns counted as of 10 p.m. manila time, mr. marcos had 23 million votes, more than double ms. robredo’s 10.9 million votes, according to abs-cbn news, a local broadcaster with access to the official election servers. sara duterte, the daughter of president rodrigo duterte, who is running for vice president in support of mr. marcos, also led by a wide margin. she had 18.6 million votes, more than triple her nearest rival, senator francis pangilinan, who had six million votes., but by the time polls closed at 7 p.m., accounts of alarming irregularities had been reported across the country: malfunctioning voting machines, insufficient numbers of backup machines, complaints that voters had been left off registration rolls, and that their ballots had been tampered with. still, mr. marcos’s lead was so strong that it appeared extremely unlikely that ms. robredo could prevail., the official count begins at 1 p.m. on tuesday local time, and a winner is expected to be announced in the coming days. it remains to be seen if mr. marcos will claim victory before that process is complete., human rights activists, intellectuals and hundreds of thousands of young people had opposed mr. marcos’s bid for the presidency, fearing that democracy would regress even further under his rule. to many victims of the older mr. marcos’s brutal rule, his son’s win is tantamount to an erasure of their own experiences, because his family has spent years distorting their shared memory of the atrocities committed during the martial law era., if mr. marcos wins the presidency, it would be an extraordinary comeback for a family that was hounded out of office more than three decades ago. in 1986, millions of filipinos, angry at the rights abuses and corruption committed during the marcos regime, poured into the streets in mass protests known as the “people power” revolt, forcing the family to flee to hawaii. they returned after the death of the older mr. marcos in 1989, however., before the election, every opinion poll had showed that mr. marcos would win the presidency and do so with the widest margin in three decades., mr. marcos, known by his boyhood nickname, “bongbong,” ran on a platform of unity, saying that he “would help filipinos rise again.” but many of his policy proposals remain thin, and he has accepted few media interviews. he appealed to a public that has grown disillusioned with the country’s brand of democracy and its failure to address the basic needs of its citizens. poverty is widespread, inequality has widened and corruption remains rampant., mr. marcos served as vice governor, governor and congressman in ilocos norte, the family stronghold, for most of the period between the late 1980s and 2010. that year, he entered the national political scene when he was elected senator., — sui-lee wee, manila — millions of filipinos stood in line for hours on monday to pick a new leader to replace president rodrigo duterte in the most consequential election that the philippines has seen in more than three decades., but by the time polls closed at 7 p.m., accounts of alarming irregularities had been reported across the country., the government said more than 1,800 voting machines had malfunctioned during the day, and that there were only 1,100 backup machines nationwide. the number of machines that had broken down was more than double than in the 2016 presidential election, according to a local election watchdog, kontra daya. voters complained that their names had been left off voting registration rolls and that their ballots had been tampered with., the legal network for truthful elections, an advocacy group made up of lawyers, said it had observed election irregularities, election offenses and technical problems during voting, including in 13 places where vote-counting machines had malfunctioned. its officers had seen people masquerading as election officials to assist voters, according to the organization., as night fell, the hashtag #extendvotinghoursph was trending on twitter., vote counting will start tuesday at 1 p.m., and a winner is expected to be announced in the coming days. in previous elections, officials from rural provinces with poor internet connections have had to physically transport counted ballots to manila, the capital., in a news conference in the afternoon, george garcia, an elections commissioner, said there was no reason to extend voting nationwide since the long waits in some areas likely had to do with power outages, which were minimal and had already been resolved., the election presents this country of 110 million people with a stark choice to replace mr. duterte: leni robredo, the country’s vice president, who has served as a check on mr. duterte, or ferdinand marcos jr., the son and namesake of the dictator who was ousted in 1986., ms. robredo said her campaign had set up a hotline to receive complaints and placed lawyers on standby for people to report anything suspicious. “we do not want the integrity of the elections to be compromised, because that is when confusion arises,” she told reporters earlier monday. “we hope that the authorities can show that they are on top of the situation, because public trust relies on that.”, — sui-lee wee and camille elemia, manila — filipinos headed to the polls on monday in a hotly contested election that has been described as the most consequential in decades, one that will shape the direction of the country’s fragile democracy and transform alliances with the united states and china., although there are 10 presidential candidates on the ballot, the competition is seen as a two-way race between ferdinand marcos jr., the son and namesake of the former dictator, and leni robredo, the country’s vice president., but the vote is more a contest of values than a contest of candidates., critics say a win for mr. marcos — after six years of president rodrigo duterte — could threaten the future of democracy in the philippines, one of southeast asia’s most populous nations. mr. duterte is limited to a single six-year term under the constitution., ms. robredo, who has promised to restore freedoms that have been rolled back under mr. duterte, is polling far behind mr. marcos, though she has inspired a grass-roots political movement and drawn hundreds of thousands of young people to her rallies in recent weeks., the election will be closely watched by both beijing and washington. the next president is likely to play a role in america’s efforts to counter china’s aggression in the indo-pacific, a priority for the biden administration. the philippines is the only u.s. treaty ally bordering the south china sea, a vital maritime shipping route and the site of various territorial disputes between beijing and several countries in southeast asia., in this archipelago nation of 110 million people, major election issues include climate change and the economy. votes are tallied by province, with results expected to trickle in over the next few days. a winner could be announced within days., — sui-lee wee, the philippines was once described by a facebook executive as “patient zero” in the global disinformation epidemic, but over the years, the government has done little to stop the deluge. and now researchers fear voters have become inured to the problem, readily seeking what they think is the truth from social media., much of the disinformation in the election has been peddled on facebook, tiktok and youtube. the violent rule of ferdinand e. marcos, mr. marcos’s father, is being recast as a period of strong economic growth and infrastructure projects. leni robredo, the country’s vice president and mr. marcos’s chief rival, is being painted as a communist who has accomplished nothing in office., president rodrigo duterte won the election in 2016 partly because his allies flooded facebook with false news about his opponents. but mr. marcos’s supporters have chosen a different approach to social media: livestream video., youtubers have gone live at his rallies while echoing the candidate’s election narrative. they have spread false information about his wealth and repeated allegations that ms. robredo cheated to defeat him in the 2016 vice-presidential race., the disinformation has worked. many supporters of mr. marcos say the philippines should return to the time under his father’s government, focusing on stability and growth. some refer to the widely debunked rumor that the marcoses had acquired a huge stash of gold from a royal family that would be shared with the general public., analysts predict that this army of streamers is so large and devoted that mr. marcos would most likely turn to it — rather than to the traditional news media — to spread his message as president if he wins the election., the senate acknowledged the problem of misinformation in the philippines in 2018, when it held a series of hearings on the crisis. but little action followed., in february, senator francis pangilinan, who is seeking the vice president’s office as ms. robredo’s running mate, called for the senate to review criminal laws to curb misinformation and proposed a bill to address the issue. his efforts went nowhere., — camille elemia, ferdinand marcos jr. has waited a long time for this moment., thirty-six years after filipinos overthrew his father, ferdinand e. marcos, in a popular revolt, mr. marcos seems likely to become the first person to win the presidential election in the philippines by a majority in more than three decades., mr. marcos has spent decades defending his family’s name against accusations of greed and corruption and downplaying the legacy of his father’s brutal rule. during his presidential campaign, he has portrayed himself as a unifier, while false narratives online reimagine his father’s regime as a “golden era” in the nation’s history., the race is being cast as a competition between those who remember the past and those who are accused of trying to distort it, the last chapter in a brazen effort to absolve the marcoses of wrongdoing and quash any effort to hold the family accountable., six years of president rodrigo duterte — a marcos ally known for his bloody war on drugs and for jailing his critics — may have presaged a marcos family comeback., the family is accused of looting as much as $10 billion from the government before fleeing to hawaii in 1986, when the peaceful “people power” protests toppled the marcos regime. the family returned to the country shortly after the death of the elder mr. marcos in 1989., despite the exile, the marcos name never truly left the political establishment., mr. marcos, known by his boyhood nickname, “bongbong,” served as vice governor, governor and congressman in ilocos norte, the family stronghold, for most of the period between the 1980s and 2010. that year, he entered the national political scene when he was elected senator. imelda marcos, his 92-year-old mother, twice ran unsuccessfully for president in the 1990s., “my mom wanted me to run since i was 8 years old,” mr. marcos said in “the kingmaker,” a documentary about his mother., — sui-lee wee, manila — election violence erupted in the philippines over the weekend and on monday after a shooting between two groups linked to rivals for mayor left four people dead, and a grenade attack wounded nine others., the shooting occurred on sunday in the northern province of ilocos sur. separately, local police in the southern town of maguindanao said five rounds of grenades were fired in a municipal hall, prompting an exchange of gunfire with the police. in lanao del sur, videos on social media showed people storming a voting center to destroy ballots and machines. an election official said the government was investigating the episode., violence is common during elections in the philippines, where the government has deployed 270,000 police and military personnel on monday to thwart such attacks., tight security was apparent at elementary schools converted into polling stations, and there were reports of broken voting machines and of some voters having difficulty locating their names on voter registration rolls. at a news conference, marlon casquejo, an election official, said the government had counted 143 defective machines across the country. he said these were mostly “isolated incidents,” and blamed old equipment for the problem., later in the day, george garcia, the election commissioner, said more than 1,800 voting machines had malfunctioned and that there were 1,100 backup machines nationwide., analysts and election observers have described the race between ferdinand marcos jr. and leni robredo, the vice president, as an existential battle for the soul of the country, with consequences that could not be overstated., chester cabalza, the founder of the manila-based research institute international development and security cooperation, said that voting was not only about the next president, but about “choosing between good governance in a transparent government or a continuity of leadership tainted with lies and revised history.”, carl merencillo, a voter in manila who works at a construction firm, brought his wife and two young daughters to ms. robredo’s last campaign rally in manila’s financial district on saturday. by midmorning on monday, he cast his vote for “hope,” he said., “definitely this was for the kids. this was one way, really, for me to ensure that the future will be brighter for the kids and their generation,” mr. merencillo said., it took between 45 minutes and an hour for voters to cast their ballots in one precinct outside manila, as the line snaked about a mile under the searing tropical sun. officials tried to enforce social distancing rules to prevent the spread of covid-19, but voters were packed cheek by jowl at many polling places., apart from the top job, thousands of local officials, town mayors and senators are also up for election in the philippines. there are more than 65 million registered voters in the country — a record — and election officers said that polling stations would be open until 7 p.m., — jason gutierrez, the two top candidates in monday’s presidential election offer filipino voters a stark choice: the country’s vice president who has served as a check on president rodrigo duterte versus the scion of the philippines’ most controversial political family., leni robredo, who was elected separately from mr. duterte, is an outspoken critic of the president and a frequent target of his insults. she is polling a far second behind the front-runner, ferdinand marcos jr., the only son and namesake of the former dictator., but perhaps the biggest surprise in this election has been the groundswell of support for ms. robredo from “generation z” and thousands of millennials. many of her supporters are first-time voters, or are too young to vote., ms. robredo, the widow of a government minister who died in a 2012 plane crash, has drawn comparisons to corazon aquino, the country’s former president who was swept into office after the assassination of her husband, benigno aquino, and the huge “people power” revolt that ousted the marcos regime., but ms. robredo, who has served as a congresswoman and worked as a lawyer and an economist, is more politically experienced than mrs. aquino was. in 2016, she beat mr. marcos narrowly to win the vice presidency. ms. robredo has vowed to stop the extrajudicial killings in the violent drug war overseen by mr. duterte., in an interview, tricia robredo, one of ms. robredo’s daughters, said her mother had been reluctant to run because she had told her family that she would not run for office again. “it was a promise to her daughters and the bigger goal, which is to prevent a marcos from being president again,” said the younger ms. robredo. “i think those were the things that were going through her head.”, but when no one emerged as an unifying opposition candidate to take on mr. marcos, she threw her name in the ring late last year., — sui-lee wee, foreign policy issues rarely featured in previous presidential elections, but one country has changed that this year: china., in debates and interviews, the candidates have been asked how they plan to deal with beijing. many filipinos are increasingly aware that the livelihoods of their country’s fishermen are being threatened by chinese boats that ply the south china sea. they are also appalled by president rodrigo duterte’s embrace of china. a 2020 survey showed that filipinos trust the united states more than china., in march, the united states and the philippines launched their largest-ever joint military drills, with nearly 9,000 filipino and american soldiers training together on the island of luzon. it was a sign of warming relations between the two countries after years of bluster from mr. duterte., during his presidency, mr. duterte threatened to end his country’s century-old alliance with the united states while cozying up to xi jinping, china’s top ruler. ferdinand marcos jr. has signaled that he would take a more balanced approach to managing the country’s relationship with the united states and china., mr. marcos has promised to keep two longstanding military pacts with the united states that allow for a large number of american soldiers and equipment to enter the philippines. he has also said he would not enforce the 2016 decision at the hague that ruled in favor of the philippines and rejected china’s claim over most of the south china sea., in an interview with a talk-show host in january, mr. marcos said china “won’t listen to whatever the court’s findings are. so it’s no longer an arbitration if there’s only one party.” his comment led to a backlash in the philippines, where anti-china sentiment has thrived in recent years., foreign policy experts in the philippines have criticized mr. marcos for having a “defeatist attitude” on china relations and accused him of being too accommodating toward beijing., leni robredo, the vice president and mr. marcos’s opponent in the election, said she would leverage the 2016 ruling to persuade other members of the association of southeast asian nations to establish a code of conduct with china on the south china sea. she has said she would deal with beijing only after it recognized the 2016 ruling., — sui-lee wee, the election comes at a crucial time for the economy in the philippines, which was hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic., president rodrigo duterte, who is retiring, imposed some of the world’s strictest and longest lockdowns, pushing the country into its worst recession in more than two decades. since then, economic growth has picked up, though it has yet to fully recover., a bright spot came in november, when the country recorded its lowest unemployment rate since april 2020 at 6.5 percent. but close to 4 million people were pushed into poverty in the first half of 2021 because of the pandemic, according to government data., little is known about the economic plans of ferdinand marcos jr., the front-runner. he has said if elected he would continue mr. duterte’s “build build build” infrastructure program and his answer to boosting employment is pushing for more covid-19 vaccinations in an initiative referred to as “jabs to jobs.”, investors and officials have demonstrated little faith in mr. marcos’s economic ability. in a bloomberg poll that asked investors and analysts who they thought would be the best person to lead the economy, mr. marcos came in near the bottom. the top rank went to leni robredo, the vice president and mr. marcos’s opponent, who also has been backed by five former heads of the philippine’s top economic planning body., ms. robredo is known for her work with the poor and has laid out a pandemic recovery plan that focuses on health and unemployment assistance. she also has pledged to reduce poverty and raise employment by increasing manufacturing and developing new industries., — sui-lee wee, two of the philippines’ most powerful political families have joined forces in the may 9 elections as the children of two presidents seek the country’s top offices., ferdinand marcos jr., son of the ousted dictator ferdinand e. marcos, and sara duterte, daughter of the current strongman president, rodrigo duterte, are running on the same ticket and are the front-runners in races for the presidency and vice presidency., the elder marcos, who ruled the philippines from 1965 to 1986, and president duterte, whose term ends next month, are both known for their abuse of power. mr. marcos declared martial law and remained in office until he was ousted by the people power movement. accused of committing huge human rights abuses and stealing billions, he fled to hawaii and died there in 1989., the irreverent mr. duterte, elected in 2016, has led a bloody war on drugs and jailed his critics. last week, he joked at a campaign rally that he would go to hell but would take over after cutting off satan’s tail and making it into stew. “don’t be afraid of satan,” he said. “if there’s an election there, we’ll surely win.”, the alliance between the duterte and marcos families was cemented soon after mr. duterte took office and ordered the remains of the ousted dictator to be moved to the philippines’ equivalent of arlington national cemetery., “the marcos-duterte axis will likely pick up where the outgoing populist leader leaves off: nudging the philippines’ besieged democracy over the cliff,” said richard heydarian, a political science professor at polytechnic university of the philippines. “the upshot will likely be a ‘hybrid’ regime, where a single coalition of an illiberal elite enjoys full-spectrum dominance in elections and the media landscape via proxies and impresarios.”, ms. duterte would have been a strong contender to succeed her father as president, but agreed to seek the vice presidency on the ticket with mr. marcos. in the philippines, the president and vice president are elected separately and are limited by the constitution to one six-year term., — richard c. paddock, the philippines, which is made up of more than 7,000 islands, is one of the nations most exposed to climate change. but the presidential candidates have said little about their plans to combat the crisis., a study that looked at countries’ vulnerability to climate change risks ranked the philippines third among 67 countries. it experiences roughly 20 typhoons a year, destroying homes, buildings and roads., “the next president will serve during the decade which is the most crucial window for climate action if we are to avoid the worst impacts of climate change,” greenpeace philippines said on its website., ferdinand marcos jr., the front-runner, has said the philippines needs to take collective action to combat climate change and that he supports a transition to renewable energy. videos of his campaign feature him in front of a wind farm that he supported when he was governor of ilocos norte, the marcos family stronghold., leni robredo, his main rival, said she wants the philippines to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and is pushing for the early retirement of coal-fired power plants. she, too, supports a transition to renewable energy., as the planet continues to warm, the philippines is expected to bear the brunt of more intense typhoons, higher sea levels and storm surges. the world bank estimates that storm surges are projected to affect about 14 percent of the total population and 42 percent of coastal populations. informal settlements, which account for 45 percent of the philippines’ urban population, are particularly vulnerable to floods., the majority of the people living in these settlements have rickety homes and lack access to clean water and reliable health care., warming oceans are also threatening the survival of many fishing communities. about 70 percent of filipinos live in coastal areas, and many fish for a living. the philippines ranks no. 8 globally for fish production, supplying about 3.5 percent of the world’s fish., in recent years, fishermen have said that their catch has been reduced sharply because of overfishing and erratic weather. a study in 2018 that looked at the marine impact of climate change showed that up to a quarter of the fish harvest from the philippines could disappear by 2050., — sui-lee wee, filipinos are heading to the polls today to elect a new president, vice president and members of congress., voter surveys indicated that the leading candidate for president is ferdinand marcos jr., the son of ferdinand e. marcos, the dictator who was forced from office in 1986. mr. marcos’s main rival is vice president leni robredo, who defeated him in a close election six years ago., in the race for vice president, the leading contender is mr. marcos’s running mate, sara duterte, the daughter of president rodrigo duterte. a victory for mr. marcos and ms. duterte would unite two powerful political clans in the country’s top offices., — richard c. paddock][philippines presidential election, philippines live updates: ferdinand marcos jr. takes huge lead, here’s what you need to know:, early vote counts point to a lopsided lead for ferdinand marcos jr., voters complain of broken machines and long waits., advertisement, it’s the most consequential election in the philippines in recent history., political lies have flourished on social media during the campaign., advertisement, after 36 years, another marcos may lead the philippines., reports of violence and broken voting machines in the philippines leave voters on edge., advertisement, leni robredo, the vice president, is the only woman seeking the top job., a balancing act between the u.s. and china., advertisement, the philippines’ post-pandemic recovery is a key election issue., two political clans with an autocratic past seek power together., advertisement, the country is extremely vulnerable to climate change., a look at election day from polling stations around manila., site information navigation]philippines presidential election: live news updates - the new york times[, ][updates, the front-runner, the youth vote, duterte’s retirement, give this article, , , early vote counts point to a lopsided lead for ferdinand marcos jr., voters complain of broken machines and long waits., it’s the most consequential election in the philippines in recent history., political lies have flourished on social media during the campaign., after 36 years, another marcos may lead the philippines., two political clans with an autocratic past seek power together., give this article, , , © 2022 the new york times company, nytco, contact us, accessibility, work with us, advertise, t brand studio, your ad choices, privacy policy, terms of service, terms of sale, site map, canada, international, help, subscriptions]