[the new york governor’s exposure comes as the state battles yet another variant that is more transmissible than previous versions of the virus., by grace ashford, gov. kathy hochul of new york announced on sunday that she had tested positive for the coronavirus — the worst sort of mother’s day surprise for the state’s first mom governor., aides said that ms. hochul was asymptomatic, and that the virus had been detected as part of the governor’s testing routine in albany., the news forced ms. hochul to cancel a trip she had planned to washington, d.c., to see her family and week-old granddaughter., “today i tested positive for covid-19,” ms. hochul wrote on twitter. “thankfully, i’m vaccinated and boosted, and i’m asymptomatic. i’ll be isolating and working remotely this week.”, ms. hochul’s exposure comes as the state battles yet another variant that is more transmissible than previous versions of the virus. over the past two months, case numbers have steadily ticked upward, though deaths have remained relatively stable., for weeks, officials have warned that new york could be on the brink of a new spike, though the proliferation of at-home tests has made it difficult to assess the scope of the problem., the rise in cases comes as coronavirus precautions, such as vaccine and mask mandates, have been rolled back across the state., according to public schedules, ms. hochul spent the weekend in albany, where the risk of infection is high, according to the centers for disease control and prevention. cases upstate have swelled in recent days, one of just a few such spikes in the country., the governor’s team said that she was following regular precautions with regards to masking., ms. hochul is far from the only public official to have been exposed to the virus recently — in april, new york city’s mayor, eric adams, also tested positive., and in the final, frenzied days of budget negotiations, many top members of ms. hochul’s inner circle contracted the virus, though the governor managed to stay healthy. this is the first time she has been infected, according to her staff., the exposure follows a difficult month for ms. hochul., in april, her lieutenant governor at the time, brian a. benjamin, was arrested on federal bribery charges and resigned. that same day, a gunman opened fire in a subway car in brooklyn, stoking city dwellers’ fears, and complicating officials’ efforts to declare that new york city’s pandemic troubles were behind it., the next week, the state court of appeals rejected the state senate and congressional maps that democratic lawmakers in albany had drawn, saying they violated a new york ban on partisan gerrymandering. the ruling caused an uproar in albany, and injected new chaos into the primary season., ms. hochul’s staff did not provide a list of plans that might be interrupted at this time by the governor’s quarantine, and said that she would be working remotely. may is a busy month in albany, as lawmakers hammer out the last of the legislation that will pass in this year’s session, which is scheduled to end on june 2., after announcing her positive test, the governor repeated a message that has by now become familiar: “a reminder to all new yorkers: get vaccinated and boosted, get tested, and stay home if you don’t feel well,” she said on twitter., by amy qin, amy chang chien and isabelle qian, taipei, taiwan — until recently, china and taiwan were among the last places on earth to pursue a “zero covid” policy of eliminating infections. for two years, they mostly succeeded in keeping the coronavirus out with tough border controls and rigorous contact tracing., then came the highly transmissible omicron variant., faced with surging coronavirus cases, the two governments are now taking vastly different approaches. in china, the authorities are doubling down. they have imposed stringent lockdowns, mass testing and centralized quarantines for confirmed cases and close contacts. the glittering financial capital of shanghai has been in a strict and punishing lockdown for more than a month to contain a large outbreak., in taiwan, by contrast, the government is shifting from a strategy of elimination to one of mitigation. despite soaring case counts, taiwan is now allowing people with mild and asymptomatic infections to isolate at home instead of in hospitals. the government slashed the number of days in quarantine required of incoming travelers and people deemed close contacts., officials are calling it a “new taiwan model.”, “we are now moving from zero covid to the path of coexisting with the virus,” chen shih-chung, taiwan’s health minister, said at a news briefing on tuesday, adding that he expected covid to become more “flulike” in nature., the government’s shift in approach reflects an acceptance of growing evidence that omicron, while highly transmissible, is less deadly. it is also a recognition that pandemic measures such as quarantine requirements for travelers were stifling economic activity and eroding the island’s international competitiveness., “even though their response has been a bit slow, they have responded to these voices and to scientific evidence,” said chunhuei chi, director of the center for global health at oregon state university and a former policy adviser to taiwan’s national health insurance administration., under the new model, taiwanese health officials say, they are shifting their focus from looking at total infections to “reducing disasters.” that means redirecting resources to focus on protecting the most vulnerable populations, like older adults and those with underlying conditions. the authorities are also putting more emphasis on vaccinations instead of quarantines and contact tracing., though cases have surged, officials have emphasized that more than 99.7 percent of the new infections so far have been mild or asymptomatic. on monday, taiwan’s health authorities reported 40,263 locally transmitted cases and 12 deaths, bringing the death toll since the start of the outbreak in april to 78. the authorities have warned that daily infections could surpass 100,000 this week., the government’s shift is partly out of necessity. its covid strategy allowed taiwan for much of the past more than two years to be a rare haven, where international concerts and conferences could be held without fear of the virus. now, as the rest of the world has dropped border controls and restarted business, that distinction has largely evaporated, and taiwan risks losing out on tourism and investment by continuing to stay closed., political considerations are also at play. taiwan has used its success with covid to burnish its image as a beacon of democracy, in contrast to the authoritarian communist party of china, which claims the island as its territory., unlike china, taiwan’s leaders say, taiwan can balance the needs of public health with the rights of the individual and the healthy functioning of society. at the other extreme is the crisis in shanghai, where officials imposed a poorly planned lockdown that sometimes arbitrarily confined residents to mass isolation facilities, separated children from their parents and led to food shortages., even in beijing, which has so far avoided a citywide lockdown, the authorities have sealed off many apartment complexes and neighborhoods, confining residents to their homes, when only a few cases have been found. on monday, the city announced that schools, which had closed on april 29, one day earlier than a scheduled weeklong break for the may day holiday, would remain closed until further notice and classes would be online., leo du, 38, who works in venture capital in beijing, said the inconvenience imposed by the measures was intolerable., how could it be that two years into the pandemic, he wondered, china was still hoarding toilet paper and maintaining armies of workers in head-to-toe protective suits while the rest of the world was seemingly moving on?, “it makes me very sad and pissed about where i am,” mr. du said, “seeing people elsewhere living a normal life.”, the toll of the lockdowns across china has prompted an unusual outpouring of criticism at home of the party’s zero-covid policy. but chinese censors have gone into overdrive to scrub dissent, arguing that opening up would only invite untold deaths and chaos., beijing has pushed a triumphant political narrative about its success with covid, claiming that it proved the country’s model of centralized power saved more lives than that of liberal democracies. at a news conference last month, ma xiaoguang, spokesman for china’s taiwan affairs office, commented on taiwan’s recent move away from a zero-covid policy, saying “you can calculate how many people will lose their lives.”, taiwan wants to show that it does not suffer from the ideological rigidity that has come to define the communist party under xi jinping. “we will not lock down the country and cities as cruelly as china,” said su tseng-chang, taiwan’s premier, during a visit to taiwan’s centers for disease control this month., it’s a message that resonates with many citizens. bill chu, 45, an engineer at an information technology company in taipei who was waiting at a hospital for a p.c.r. test on wednesday, said that seeing reports of the harsh quarantine conditions and food shortages in shanghai had reinforced his belief that taiwan was moving in the right direction., “every country is different, and their approaches to covid are different,” said mr. chu. “i prefer the more people-centered and flexible one.”, mr. su has said that taiwan’s opening would be “gradual.” even so, the government may be moving too quickly for some., it appears to have been caught off guard by the surge in cases, with long lines forming at pharmacies and hospitals for p.c.r. and rapid antigen tests. the shift could also be risky for taiwan’s older adults, with vaccination rates in that age group lower than that in singapore and south korea, countries that have eased restrictions without a significant surge in the death rate from infections., officials in taiwan say 69 percent of people age 65 and older had received three shots, up slightly from the month before, but still low relative to the broader population. more than half of the 78 deaths reported in the recent outbreak have been among older adults who were not fully vaccinated. the vaccination of children between the ages of 6 and 11, meanwhile, is being rolled out only this month. more than 2,000 schools have suspended in-person teaching., another challenge for taiwan is convincing the public that this change is the right move. in taipei, even though the city has avoided shutting down businesses, people are staying away. restaurants, bars and gyms that were once packed are now noticeably quieter. in a community that has largely avoided the coronavirus, fear of outbreaks is not uncommon, and it may take time for residents to accept new norms., chen yan-sheng, 37, a human resources manager who lives in new taipei city, near taipei, said that when he got covid last month, he immediately felt afraid and ashamed, because he didn’t know anyone else who had it. since then, though, six other friends tested positive too, he said, and they all seemed to be doing ok., he used to be wary of the island’s push to ease restrictions, but has since changed his mind., “i think living with the virus is inevitable,” mr. chen said. “it’s only a matter of time before we all get it.”, by sheryl gay stolberg, washington — a devastating virus was laying waste to nations that lacked medicines available to americans. the pills were patented and pricey. poor countries lacked refrigeration to store them, the thinking went, and patients would not be able to follow the complex dosing regimen., the year was 2002, the virus was h.i.v., and the president, george w. bush, secretly sent his top health advisers to africa to investigate what activists were calling “medical apartheid.” in the 20 years since, the united states has led the way in building a global infrastructure for h.i.v. testing and treatment, saving an estimated 21 million lives., now, with that history in mind, global health agencies and the biden administration are working to bring coronavirus tests and expensive antiviral pills to low- and middle-income nations. this week, president biden will emphasize “global test to treat” at his second international covid-19 summit, a virtual gathering of world leaders aimed at injecting new energy into the international pandemic response., until now, the response has been focused largely on vaccinations, which remain a high priority. but mr. biden will also use the summit to call on wealthy nations to donate $2 billion to purchase covid treatments and $1 billion to purchase oxygen supplies for low- and middle-income countries, according to a senior administration official involved with the planning., in the united states, where antiviral pills to combat covid are widely available, mr. biden’s “test to treat” initiative lets many patients go to pharmacies, get tested for covid and receive a free prescription on the spot if they test positive. in low- and middle-income nations, such efforts will most likely be much more limited until generic pills arrive, probably in 2023., but the global effort faces some of the same obstacles and inequities that existed two decades ago., rich nations, including the united states, have gobbled up much of the supply. global health agencies do not have the money to buy the antivirals or tests, which are crucial because the medication needs to be started early in the course of infection. drug companies, trying to protect their patents, are limiting the supply of generic alternatives in many middle-income countries, including an entire swath of latin america., all of this is playing out against the infectious disease equivalent of a ticking time bomb., “we all expect a major new surge from omicron or a new variant in the global south from june to september, and if that happens, we are not going to be ready with test and treat,” said dr. bill rodriguez, who runs the testing arm of the act accelerator, the geneva-based consortium coordinating the global response. “it feels extremely similar — painfully, ironically, tragically similar — to what happened with h.i.v.”, on monday, ahead of the summit, the consortium, which is backed by the world health organization, is set to convene a discussion of global health experts and declare access to testing and treatment an “equity issue,” officials said., mr. biden may well show up at his own summit empty-handed. the white house has asked congress for an additional $22.5 billion in emergency coronavirus aid, including $5 billion for the global response, but senate republicans are refusing to authorize any funding unless it is offset by cuts to other programs. a $10 billion compromise proposal includes no money for the global response, and it is unclear when or whether that plan will come up for a vote., “here we are with another virus that’s creating havoc all over the world,” said gayle smith, who ran the state department’s global covid response under mr. biden and is now chief executive of the one campaign, an advocacy organization. “maybe it’s not as lethal as h.i.v., but it’s still pretty bad. and we’ve got therapeutics. how are we going to think about this? are we going to take the lessons learned and have a plan?”, one of the biggest hurdles is the rapid decline of covid testing around the world. the w.h.o.-backed consortium recently reported that just 20 percent of the 5.7 billion tests conducted globally have been in low- and middle-income nations. low-income countries accounted for less than 1 percent of the testing. the reasons are twofold: countries lack money to buy the tests, and demand has dropped in regions where covid rates are now low., “what really worries me is the testing part of this,” said dr. bruce aylward, a top w.h.o. official and the consortium’s coordinator. “if you’re not testing, you can’t sequence, you can’t isolate, you can’t treat. everything else unravels.”, paxlovid, the more powerful of the two covid antiviral pills approved by the food and drug administration, is so plentiful in the united states that pharmacies are struggling to use up their supplies. the biden administration has committed to purchasing 20 million treatment courses for americans., the w.h.o. recently issued a “strong recommendation” that paxlovid, which is made by pfizer, be given to patients at high risk of hospitalization and called for its “wide geographic distribution.” the w.h.o. has given a far weaker “conditional recommendation” to the other drug, molnupiravir, which is made by merck and is not nearly as in demand., global health experts say both companies have absorbed the lessons of aids — but only to a point., they have each agreed to allocate several million courses of treatment — a total of seven million courses in all — to unicef for distribution in most low- and middle-income countries, which account for more than half the world’s population. but unicef will not be able to buy the drugs unless it can raise the money to do so or countries supply the funds. and seven million courses is hardly enough to address the need, experts say., the cost to unicef of paxlovid — including pfizer’s insistence that unicef keep how much it pays confidential — remains a sticking point, said dr. philippe duneton, who runs the therapeutics arm of the w.h.o. consortium. in announcing its “strong recommendation” for paxlovid, the w.h.o. took the highly unusual step of publicly scolding pfizer for a “lack of transparency,” which makes it difficult to know which countries have the drug and what they are paying., “we need to have better visibility in terms of price,” dr. duneton said., manufacturers often prefer that the details of their sales agreements be secret so as not to weaken their hand with other potential buyers. pfizer’s chief executive, albert bourla, reported last week that paxlovid had been a “key growth driver” for the company, which is using a “tiered pricing approach” in which low- and lower-middle-income countries will get paxlovid at a not-for-profit price., in response to an inquiry from the new york times, pfizer issued a statement saying that it was “deeply disappointed by the sentiment expressed by our partners,” adding, “we have in good faith heard and responded to many of their concerns.”, both pfizer and merck have also taken steps to make inexpensive generic versions of their pills available, signing licensing agreements with the medicines patent pool, which was created during the global aids crisis to bring drugs to low- and middle-income nations at low cost. it took years, and bitter fights between activists and companies, to reach such agreements for h.i.v. drugs., but the agreements for covid antivirals do not apply to many middle-income nations, including much of latin america and parts of northern africa and asia. the result, experts say, is that both poor and rich nations will have access, but countries in the middle will have to negotiate with the companies — or force the drugmakers to turn over their intellectual property., so far, 36 companies from 12 countries have signed up to make generic paxlovid. companies in india are already making generic versions of both paxlovid and molnupiravir. the expectation is that both drugs will ultimately be available in about 100 low- and middle-income countries, covering about half the world’s population. the companies will not receive royalties from the sales while the w.h.o.’s declaration of the pandemic as a global health emergency remains in effect., “given the severity of the pandemic and given the fact that vaccines had a very uneven penetration rate, we felt that this was a very important contribution the company could make,” said paul schaper, executive director for global public policy at merck., but those generics will not be available until next year. in the meantime, doctors and activists around the world say vulnerable patients are dying as antiviral pills, monoclonal antibodies and even oxygen remain out of reach. in countries with low vaccination rates, the need is especially urgent., in uganda, dr. sabrina kitaka, a pediatrician who also advises the government on covid-19 vaccination, said many children with underlying conditions — sickle cell disease, diabetes, advanced h.i.v. disease — have had complications from covid-19. she has lost young patients who would have been eligible for paxlovid, which is approved in the united states for children 12 and older who weigh at least 40 kilograms, or about 88 pounds., “paxlovid will be the game changer,” dr. kitaka said. that is especially true “for patients who become critically ill and end up in the i.c.u.,” she added., in the dominican republic, pfizer is fighting a petition for the government to compel the company to share its patents for paxlovid with generic makers. similar petitions have been filed in colombia, chile and peru., “both merck and pfizer have reserved for themselves all the high-income countries and virtually all of the upper-middle-income countries and even some lower-middle-income countries,” said brook baker, a law professor at northeastern university who has submitted a legal brief in support of the dominican republic petition., in brazil, regulators have authorized both paxlovid and molnupiravir. the country and pfizer are negotiating a purchase agreement so paxlovid can be offered for free through brazil’s public health system., but a quarter of brazilians have private insurance and may already have access to the drug, said felipe carvalho, coordinator of the doctors without borders access campaign in latin america., “we have a world divided between treatment for the rich and treatment for the poor, still today,” mr. carvalho said, adding, “we are still struggling 20 years, 30 years after the h.i.v.-aids crisis to convince companies to do the right thing.”, in 2003, after he sent top government health experts, including dr. anthony s. fauci, to africa, mr. bush created pepfar, the president’s emergency plan for aids relief, which supports clinics, medical personnel and community health workers., dr. deborah l. birx, who ran pepfar for seven years and also served as president donald j. trump’s coronavirus response coordinator, said that covid vaccination campaigns relied on the program’s infrastructure and networks and that a “test to treat” effort could too. delivering drugs in africa can be easier than in the rural united states, she said., “unlike the united states,” dr. birx said, “we have shown that we can deliver drugs to the far end of the road, no matter where people live.”, leaders of the act accelerator consortium are eager to get started. they have plans to expand rapid testing in 20 “priority countries,” mostly in africa, and to run pilot “test to treat” programs in 10 nations. but both initiatives are in limbo because of a lack of money and a separate reason that officials find even more troubling: a sense of pandemic fatigue in nations whose leaders have other pressing priorities., “we have never been more ready to roll out global testing and treatment for any disease than we are for covid right now,” said dr. rodriguez, who runs the consortium’s testing arm. but the halting pace saddens him: “it’s painful. it’s really painful.”, by michael paulson, the pandemic has made this comeback theater season an unusually rocky one. after a joyous reopening following the long, painful shutdown, the omicron surge led to a ton of holiday closings, and another spike in positive cases this spring led to a rolling wave of performer absences and occasional show cancellations., that disruption was upsetting for artists and fans, and damaging for producers and investors., it also posed an unprecedented complication for tony nominators, who are not only required to see every eligible production, but also to see the performances of all tony-eligible actors., that’s always hard — most of the nominators have day jobs, and some of them live outside new york, and many shows have limited runs. but this season, two factors made it even harder: a higher-than-normal number of shows opened in april, just before the deadline to be eligible for a tony, and the spike in spring cases meant that key actors often missed performances. (among the possible nominees who tested positive for the coronavirus near the season’s end: daniel craig, sarah jessica parker, matthew broderick, laurence fishburne and ramin karimloo. plus: billy crystal canceled two performances of “mr. saturday night,” citing the flu.), for nominators, that made the ordinary complexity of end-of-season scheduling far trickier — so difficult, in fact, that the tony administrators wound up delaying the nominations by six days to give the nominators more time to see shows., even so, the number of nominators who managed to get to the finish line is low. there are usually about 50 nominators per season, some of whom wind up recusing themselves when a conflict of interest develops; this season there were just 29 who were able to participate in the voting.][the coronavirus pandemic, daily covid briefing, gov. kathy hochul of new york tests positive for the coronavirus., gov. kathy hochul of new york tests positive for the coronavirus., tracking the coronavirus ›, u.s. hot spots ›, vaccinations ›, global hot spots ›, global vaccinations ›, cases rising fastest, other trackers, cases rising fastest, other trackers, taiwan moves away from ‘zero covid,’ as beijing doubles down., advertisement, as poor nations seek covid pills, officials fear repeat of aids crisis., the coronavirus posed a special challenge to the tony nominators., site information navigation]latest covid-19 news and updates - the new york times[united states ›, united states, cases rising fastest, other trackers, cases rising fastest, other trackers][covid-19 updates, map and cases, should you be wearing a mask?, timeline of a ba.2 infection, gov. kathy hochul of new york tests positive for the coronavirus. the new york governor’s exposure comes as the state battles yet another variant that is more transmissible than previous versions of the virus., taiwan moves away from ‘zero covid,’ as beijing doubles down., as poor nations seek covid pills, officials fear repeat of aids crisis., the coronavirus posed a special challenge to the tony nominators., mo., maine, utah, hawaii, county lookup, mo., maine, utah, hawaii, county lookup, global vaccinations, give this article, , , © 2022 the new york times company, nytco, contact us, accessibility, work with us, advertise, t brand studio, your ad choices, privacy policy, terms of service, terms of sale, site map, canada, international, help, subscriptions]