[advertisement, the new york timesupdated may 9, 2022, this chart shows how cases per capita have changed in different parts of the world., update for may 4, u.s. has far higher covid death rate than other wealthy countries, despite having one of the world’s most powerful arsenals of vaccines, the united states has failed to inoculate as much of its population as other wealthy nations., update for may 4, u.s. has far higher covid death rate than other wealthy countries, despite having one of the world’s most powerful arsenals of vaccines, the united states has failed to inoculate as much of its population as other wealthy nations., this table is sorted by places with the most cases per 100,000 residents in the last seven days. charts show change in daily averages and are each on their own scale., these are days with a reporting anomaly. read more here., data for all countries except the united states comes from the center for systems science and engineering at johns hopkins university. united states data comes from state and local health officials and is collected by the new york times. population data from the world bank and u.s. census bureau. data for some countries, like the united states, denmark, france and the netherlands, include counts for overseas territories. the new york times has found that official tallies in more than thirty countries have undercounted deaths during the coronavirus outbreak because of limited testing availability., the times has identified reporting anomalies or methodology changes in the data., confirmed cases and deaths, which are widely considered to be an undercount of the true toll, are counts of individuals whose coronavirus infections were confirmed by a molecular laboratory test. probable cases and deaths count individuals who meet criteria for other types of testing, symptoms and exposure, as developed by national and local governments., governments often revise data or report a single-day large increase in cases or deaths from unspecified days without historical revisions, which can cause an irregular pattern in the daily reported figures. the times is excluding these anomalies from seven-day averages when possible. for agencies that do not report data every day, variation in the schedule on which cases or deaths are reported, such as around holidays, can also cause an irregular pattern in averages. the times uses an adjustment method to vary the number of days included in an average to remove these irregularities., by jordan allen, sarah almukhtar, aliza aufrichtig, anne barnard, matthew bloch, sarah cahalan, weiyi cai, julia calderone, keith collins, matthew conlen, lindsey cook, gabriel gianordoli, amy harmon, rich harris, adeel hassan, jon huang, danya issawi, danielle ivory, k.k. rebecca lai, alex lemonides, eleanor lutz, allison mccann, richard a. oppel jr., jugal k. patel, alison saldanha, kirk semple, shelly seroussi, julie walton shaver, amy schoenfeld walker, anjali singhvi, charlie smart, mitch smith, albert sun, rumsey taylor, lisa waananen jones, derek watkins, timothy williams, jin wu and karen yourish.   ·   reporting was contributed by jeff arnold, ian austen, mike baker, brillian bao, ellen barry, shashank bengali, samone blair, nicholas bogel-burroughs, aurelien breeden, elisha brown, emma bubola, maddie burakoff, alyssa burr, christopher calabrese, julia carmel, zak cassel, robert chiarito, izzy colón, matt craig, yves de jesus, brendon derr, brandon dupré, melissa eddy, john eligon, timmy facciola, bianca fortis, jake frankenfield, matt furber, robert gebeloff, thomas gibbons-neff, matthew goldstein, grace gorenflo, rebecca griesbach, benjamin guggenheim, barbara harvey, lauryn higgins, josh holder, jake holland, anna joyce, john keefe, ann hinga klein, jacob lagesse, alex lim, alex matthews, patricia mazzei, jesse mckinley, miles mckinley, k.b. mensah, sarah mervosh, jacob meschke, lauren messman, andrea michelson, jaylynn moffat-mowatt, steven moity, paul moon, derek m. norman, anahad o’connor, ashlyn o’hara, azi paybarah, elian peltier, richard pérez-peña, sean plambeck, laney pope, elisabetta povoledo, cierra s. queen, savannah redl, scott reinhard, chloe reynolds, thomas rivas, frances robles, natasha rodriguez, jess ruderman, kai schultz, alex schwartz, emily schwing, libby seline, rachel sherman, sarena snider, brandon thorp, alex traub, maura turcotte, tracey tully, jeremy white, kristine white, bonnie g. wong, tiffany wong, sameer yasir and john yoon.   ·   data acquisition and additional work contributed by will houp, andrew chavez, michael strickland, tiff fehr, miles watkins, josh williams, nina pavlich, carmen cincotti, ben smithgall, andrew fischer, rachel shorey, blacki migliozzi, alastair coote, jaymin patel, john-michael murphy, isaac white, steven speicher, hugh mandeville, robin berjon, thu trinh, carolyn price, james g. robinson, phil wells, yanxing yang, michael beswetherick, michael robles, nikhil baradwaj, ariana giorgi, bella virgilio, dylan momplaisir, avery dews, bea malsky, ilana marcus and jason kao., , data for all countries except the united states comes from the center for systems science and engineering at johns hopkins university. united states data comes from state and local health officials and is collected by the new york times. population data from the world bank and u.s. census bureau. data for some countries, like the united states, denmark, france and the netherlands, include counts for overseas territories. the new york times has found that official tallies in more than thirty countries have undercounted deaths during the coronavirus outbreak because of limited testing availability., the times has identified reporting anomalies or methodology changes in the data., confirmed cases and deaths, which are widely considered to be an undercount of the true toll, are counts of individuals whose coronavirus infections were confirmed by a molecular laboratory test. probable cases and deaths count individuals who meet criteria for other types of testing, symptoms and exposure, as developed by national and local governments., governments often revise data or report a single-day large increase in cases or deaths from unspecified days without historical revisions, which can cause an irregular pattern in the daily reported figures. the times is excluding these anomalies from seven-day averages when possible. for agencies that do not report data every day, variation in the schedule on which cases or deaths are reported, such as around holidays, can also cause an irregular pattern in averages. the times uses an adjustment method to vary the number of days included in an average to remove these irregularities.][the coronavirus pandemic, coronavirus world map: tracking the global outbreak, coronavirus world map: tracking the global outbreak, new reported cases, cases by region, state of the virus, hot spots, state of the virus, reported cases, deaths and vaccinations by country, how global trends have changed, about the data, tracking the coronavirus, united states, latest maps and data, vaccinations, your places, hospitals near you, world, latest maps and data, global vaccinations, health, vaccines, treatments, previous projects, mask mandates, your county’s risk, nursing homes, colleges and universities, deaths above normal, deaths above normal, early coronavirus outbreaks, countries, states, territories and cities, data, credits, about the data]covid-19 world map: cases, deaths and global trends - the new york times[cases, deaths, fully, vaccinated, march 21, 2022:, july 20, 2021:, dec. 25, 2020:, dec. 10, 2020:, confirmed cases and deaths, probable cases and deaths, march 21, 2022:, july 20, 2021:, dec. 25, 2020:, dec. 10, 2020:, confirmed cases and deaths, probable cases and deaths][give this article, , , livecovid-19 updates, map and cases, should you be wearing a mask?, timeline of a ba.2 infection, , latest maps and data, vaccinations by state, your places, hospitals, alabama, alaska, arizona, arkansas, california, colorado, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, guam, hawaii, idaho, illinois, indiana, iowa, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, mississippi, missouri, montana, nebraska, nevada, new hampshire, new jersey, new mexico, new york, north carolina, north dakota, northern mariana islands, ohio, oklahoma, oregon, pennsylvania, puerto rico, rhode island, south carolina, south dakota, tennessee, texas, u.s. virgin islands, utah, vermont, virginia, washington, washington, d.c., west virginia, wisconsin, wyoming, latest maps and data, vaccinations by country, australia, brazil, canada, china, france, germany, india, italy, japan, mexico, south africa, spain, united kingdom, vaccine development, coronavirus variants, treatments, answers to your covid-19 questions, how the covid-19 vaccines work, symptoms of covid-19, what happens in an infection, how masks work, africa, asia-pacific, europe, latin america, middle east, u.s. and canada, as the lockdown of shanghai and outbreaks in beijing and elsewhere battered china’s economy, president xi jinping has kept a distance from the politically charged questions over his zero-covid policies., coronavirus cases are surging again in south africa, prompting questions from public health experts about what is driving the spike., italy relaxed its most stringent coronavirus rules, allowing people to once again enter restaurants and other indoor venues without proof of vaccination or a negative test., puerto rico reported new cases at more than six times the national rate per person in the united states., about 11.6 billion vaccine doses have been administered worldwide, including more than 1.9 billion boosters or additional doses. track each country’s vaccination progress here., as the lockdown of shanghai and outbreaks in beijing and elsewhere battered china’s economy, president xi jinping has kept a distance from the politically charged questions over his zero-covid policies., coronavirus cases are surging again in south africa, prompting questions from public health experts about what is driving the spike., italy relaxed its most stringent coronavirus rules, allowing people to once again enter restaurants and other indoor venues without proof of vaccination or a negative test., puerto rico reported new cases at more than six times the national rate per person in the united states., about 11.6 billion vaccine doses have been administered worldwide, including more than 1.9 billion boosters or additional doses. track each country’s vaccination progress here., march 21, 2022: chile added probable covid-19 deaths from earlier in the pandemic., july 20, 2021: ecuador added a backlog of deaths from 2020., dec. 25, 2020: several countries did not publish data on dec. 25., dec. 10, 2020: turkey announced the total number of reported cases, including asymptomatic cases since the end of july, reaching more than 1.7 million cases., latest maps and data cases and deaths for every county, vaccinations how many have been vaccinated, and who’s eligible, your places build your own dashboard to track cases, hospitals near you how many i.c.u. beds are occupied, latest maps and data cases and deaths for every country, global vaccinations how many have been vaccinated, by country, vaccines track their development, treatments rated by effectiveness and safety, mask mandates see state mask guidance for schools and indoors, your county’s risk see guidance for your local area, nursing homes the hardest-hit states and facilities, colleges and universities cases at more than 1,800 schools, deaths above normal the true toll of the pandemic in the u.s., deaths above normal the true toll of coronavirus around the world, early coronavirus outbreaks cases in nursing homes, prisons and other places, australia, brazil, canada, china, france, germany, india, italy, japan, mexico, south africa, spain, united kingdom, united states, alabama, alaska, arizona, arkansas, california, colorado, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, guam, hawaii, idaho, illinois, indiana, iowa, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, mississippi, missouri, montana, nebraska, nevada, new hampshire, new jersey, new mexico, new york, north carolina, north dakota, northern mariana islands, ohio, oklahoma, oregon, pennsylvania, puerto rico, rhode island, south carolina, south dakota, tennessee, texas, u.s. virgin islands, utah, vermont, virginia, washington, washington, d.c., west virginia, wisconsin, wyoming, frequently asked questions about the covid data, access the open source covid data, march 21, 2022: chile added probable covid-19 deaths from earlier in the pandemic., july 20, 2021: ecuador added a backlog of deaths from 2020., dec. 25, 2020: several countries did not publish data on dec. 25., dec. 10, 2020: turkey announced the total number of reported cases, including asymptomatic cases since the end of july, reaching more than 1.7 million cases.]