[the leading republicans running for governor in the state want to outlaw abortion. the presumptive democratic nominee promises to veto any ban., , by trip gabriel, hanover township, pa. — jan downey, who calls herself “a catholic republican,” is so unhappy about the supreme court’s likely reversal of abortion rights that she is leaning toward voting for a democrat for pennsylvania governor this year., “absolutely,” she said. “on that issue alone.”, linda ward, also a republican, said the state’s current law allowing abortion up to 24 weeks was “reasonable.”, but ms. ward said she would vote for a republican for governor, even though all the leading candidates vowed to sign legislation sharply restricting abortion. she is disgusted with inflation, mask mandates and “woke philosophy,” she said., “after what’s happened this past year, i will never vote for a democrat,” said ms. ward, a retired church employee. “never!”, pennsylvania, one of a handful of states where abortion access hangs in the balance with midterm elections this year, is a test case of the political power of the issue in a post-roe world, offering a look at whether it will motivate party bases or can be a wedge for suburban independents., after a draft of a supreme court opinion that would end the constitutional guarantee of abortion rights was leaked last week, republicans downplayed the issue, shifting attention instead to the leak itself and away from its substance. they also argued that voters’ attentions were fleeting, that abortion was hardly a silver bullet for democratic apathy and that more pressing issues — inflation and president biden’s unpopularity — had already cast the midterm die., to democrats, this time really is different., “these are terrifying times,” said nancy patton mills, chair of the pennsylvania democratic party. “there were so many people that thought that this could never happen.”, if roe v. wade is overturned, the power to regulate abortion would return to the states. as many as 28 states are likely to ban or tightly restrict abortion, according to a new york times analysis., in four states with politically divided governments and elections for governor this year — pennsylvania, michigan, wisconsin and kansas — the issue is expected to be a fulcrum of campaigns. in michigan and wisconsin, which have anti-abortion laws on the books predating roe, democratic governors and attorneys general have vowed to block their implementation. kansas voters face a referendum in august on codifying that the state constitution does not protect abortion., pennsylvania, which has a conservative republican-led legislature and a term-limited democratic governor, is the only one of the four states with an open seat for governor., “the legislature is going to put a bill on the desk of the next governor to ban abortion,” said josh shapiro, a democrat running unopposed for the party’s nomination for governor. “every one of my opponents would sign it into law, and i would veto it.”, mr. shapiro, the state’s attorney general, has been primarily known for defeating multiple cases brought by supporters of donald j. trump claiming fraud after he lost pennsylvania by 80,000 votes in 2020. when mr. shapiro began his campaign last year, he focused on voting rights, but he said in an interview last week that he expected the general election to become a referendum on abortion., his campaign said it had its best day of fund-raising after the supreme court draft leaked last week., he rejected the notion that voters, whose attention spans can be short, will absorb a major supreme court reversal and move on by the fall. “i’m going to be talking about rights — from voting rights to reproductive rights — until the polls close at 8 p.m. on election day,” mr. shapiro said. “people are very concerned about this. i expect that level of concern, of fear, of worry, of anger is going to continue.”, all four of the top republicans heading into the primary on may 17 have said they favor strict abortion bans. lou barletta, a former congressman and one of two front-runners in the race, has said he would sign “any bill that comes to my desk that would protect the life of the unborn.”, another top candidate, doug mastriano, said in a recent debate that he was opposed to any exceptions — for rape, incest or the health of the mother — in an abortion ban. mr. mastriano, a state senator, has introduced a bill in harrisburg to ban abortions after a “fetal heartbeat” is detected, at about six weeks of pregnancy. another republican bill would require death certificates and a burial or cremation after miscarriages or abortions., democrats are worried, in pennsylvania and around the country, that their 2020 coalition lacks motivation this year after expelling mr. trump from the white house. the listlessness extends to black, latino and younger voters, as well as suburban swing voters. it was suburbanites, especially outside philadelphia, who gave mr. biden his winning edge in the state., democratic operatives hope abortion will keep those independent voters — who have since swung against the president in polls — from defecting to republicans., “with trump no longer aggravating suburban voters every week, republicans were hoping to regain traction in the philadelphia suburbs in 2022,” said j.j. balaban, a democratic strategist in the state. “the fall of roe will make that less likely to happen.” shavonnia corbin-johnson, political director of the state democratic party, said that the end of abortion access would “add to compounding racial disparities and maternal health” for minority communities, and that the party was planning to organize aggressively around the issue., soleil hartwell, 19, who works in a big-box store near bethlehem, is typical of voters who drop off in midterm elections after voting in presidential years. but ms. hartwell said she would vote this year to protect abortion rights. “i don’t have any kids, and i don’t plan on having any yet, but if i was in a situation that required me to, i should be able to” choose the fate of a pregnancy, she said., republicans are deeply skeptical that abortion can reanimate the democratic base. “their people are depressed,” said rob gleason, a former chair of the pennsylvania republican party. “nothing’s going to be able to save them this year. speaking from philadelphia after a road trip from his home in western pennsylvania, mr. gleason said: “i stopped on the turnpike and paid $5.40 a gallon for gas. that reminds me every time i fill up, i want a change.”, pennsylvania’s large roman catholic population — about one in five adults — has afforded electoral space for a tradition of anti-abortion democratic officials, including senator bob casey jr., and his father, bob casey sr., who served as governor. a law that the senior casey pushed through the legislature in the 1980s included some abortion restrictions, which was challenged in the 1992 supreme court case planned parenthood v. casey. the court upheld most of the state’s restrictions, while affirming roe v. wade’s grant of a right to abortion. the leaked draft of the court’s opinion last week, written by justice samuel alito, would overturn the casey ruling along with roe., still, support for abortion rights in pennsylvania has gradually increased, according to polling by franklin & marshall college over more than a decade., last month, 31 percent of registered voters said abortion should be legal in all circumstances, up from 18 percent in 2009. those calling for abortion to be illegal in all circumstances declined to 16 percent, from 22 percent in 2009. a broad middle group, 53 percent, said abortion should be legal under “certain circumstances.”, the issue had not ranked high among the state’s voters before the supreme court leak. in a monmouth university poll last month, abortion was cited as one of pennsylvania voters’ top two issues by just 5 percent of democrats and 3 percent of republicans. inflation topped the concerns of voters in both parties., in hanover township, outside allentown, an affluent suburb in a onetime republican enclave that has trended blue, dave savage and vincent milite, both center-right voters, were analyzing the abortion issue through the eyes of their adult daughters, while loading groceries outside a wegmans supermarket., mr. savage, 63, said that his 30-year-old daughter felt strongly that abortion should be legal, and that therefore it would be an important issue for him in november., a retired municipal employee, mr. savage said he was an independent voter but had primarily voted republican most of his life. come november, he would not support a candidate for governor who opposed abortion rights, he said. “my position is, i don’t have a vagina so i have no skin in the game.”, mr. milite read aloud a text between his two daughters, abortion-rights supporters, in reaction to a facebook post by a cousin who wrote sharply of her opposition to abortion after the supreme court leak., “i unfollowed her immediately,” one of mr. milite’s daughters texted the other. “i would never have an abortion, but i don’t have the right to tell” others what to do, she wrote., mr. milite, a supervisor in municipal government, said he supported his daughters. “i’m a republican, but i’m a moderate republican,” he said. “i’m a republican because this county was always republican.”, he said he was undecided about whom to support in this month’s primary. his vote in the general election also seemed up for grabs., “what’s going to happen is, you’re going to lose a lot of republican votes” over abortion, mr. milite predicted. “i think it’s going to hurt the republican party.”, by james dobbins, jennifer medina and katie glueck, laredo, texas — when representative henry cuellar stepped onstage at a campaign rally in san antonio this week, he spoke of education, health care and his experience in congress. but as mr. cuellar, a nine-term democratic congressman, faces his toughest re-election challenge yet, one word did not escape his lips: abortion., mr. cuellar, the most staunchly anti-abortion democrat in the house, will face a primary runoff later this month against jessica cisneros, a 28-year-old immigration lawyer and a progressive supporter of abortion rights., democrats across the country hope the leaked draft supreme court opinion overturning roe v. wade will help galvanize their voters in the midterm elections, potentially rallying support for the party in a year that is widely expected to benefit republicans., but one of the first tests of just how much the issue will motivate democratic voters will come in a primary runoff at the end of may, in the south texas district held by mr. cuellar where conservative democrats have regularly succeeded. it is a heavily latino district that includes the border city of laredo and parts of san antonio, where catholicism dominates, and where, as mr. cuellar showed from the stage, the subject of abortion often goes undiscussed., dr. enrique benavides iii, a 51-year-old obstetrician-gynecologist who manages a women’s health clinic with his father in laredo, said that typically when patients request abortions, he gives them information about a clinic in san antonio, more than a two-hour drive away., dr. benavides described himself as a pro-choice catholic democrat who will vote for mr. cuellar. “democrats here are very different than those on the coasts, very catholic and conservative,” he said., abortion rights advocates believe the supreme court’s draft ruling will shake up the race, providing a helpful jolt for ms. cisneros. but supporters of mr. cuellar and some local democratic officials say the district’s voters, who lean socially conservative, are unlikely to be moved by the issue. and several national democratic leaders who have publicly made fiery vows to maintain abortion rights are nonetheless standing behind mr. cuellar, with some warning that a win for ms. cisneros later this month could give republicans an edge in november., in interviews with nearly a dozen men and women in laredo, most said they would support mr. cuellar in spite of — or even because of — his stance on abortion., these voters, several of whom expressed support for abortion rights but said they would still vote for an anti-abortion congressman, revealed the uphill battle ms. cisneros faces as she tries to convince voters to oust a familiar political figure whose family has long been a fixture in the community. even among democrats, support for abortion rights may not uniformly motivate voters, particularly working-class latinos — a demographic that has shown signs of drifting away from the party., hector gomez, 67, has known mr. cuellar since they were classmates at j.w. nixon high school in the 1970s, and has voted for the congressman in every election since he first ran in 2006., “he’s doing his job,” said mr. gomez, an antique store owner, adding that although he is catholic and opposed to abortion, the issue does not determine his vote. “mr. cuellar is the best choice because he’s not someone you can just brush off.”, texas’ 28th congressional district stretches from the mexican border to san antonio, and laredo is its political center. a working-class city, it has been a democratic stronghold for decades but remains culturally conservative, with residents who fill catholic church pews on sundays. many describe themselves as apolitical, and said they are more focused on making ends meet than staking out positions on partisan political issues., before this week’s leaked supreme court opinion, abortion had not been the central issue in the primary campaign, though several national abortion rights groups had invested heavily in the district, focusing on the new state abortion restrictions in texas. ms. cisneros did not run a television advertisement on the issue until late last month, according to adimpact, an ad tracking firm. until the focus on abortion was renewed this week, the runoff had been a mostly sleepy affair, with observers predicting an extremely low turnout., now, ms. cisneros and her supporters have moved to use the threat to abortion rights as a primary motivator for both voters and donors., “we’re really at a moment where people are fired up and they know how much they are at risk of losing,” said kristin ford, the vice president of communications and research at the abortion rights group naral pro-choice america, which has sent organizers to laredo to campaign for ms. cisneros., ms. cisneros argues that the district is not nearly as conservative as mr. cuellar and his backers suggest, and that attitudes are changing., “this ignited the urgency,” she said in an interview on friday. “when we defeat the anti-choice democrat, that’s going to set the tone for the rest of the midterms that we want a pro-choice democratic majority in power.”, several prominent left-wing lawmakers, including representative alexandria ocasio-cortez of new york, have made fund-raising appeals for ms. cisneros. earlier this week, senator elizabeth warren of massachusetts, one of ms. cisneros’s most prominent backers, used an appearance on msnbc to make a full-throated fund-raising pitch., “if you’re mad when you listen to this, send jessica cisneros ten bucks,” she said., and during a recent virtual fund-raiser for ms. cisneros, ms. warren, speaking of mr. cuellar, said, “when it comes to reproductive rights, henry’s got a record that makes my blood boil,” according to prepared remarks obtained by the new york times., ms. cisneros first challenged mr. cuellar in 2020, when she lost the democratic primary by 4 percentage points, and quickly made plans to pursue a rematch. earlier this year, the f.b.i. raided mr. cuellar’s laredo home as part of an ongoing investigation that appears to be linked to an inquiry into the political influence of azerbaijan, the former soviet republic. in march, ms. cisneros fell less than 1,000 votes short of mr. cuellar’s total, forcing the two into the may 24 runoff., mr. cuellar, who declined to comment for this article, has long defended his anti-abortion stance., “as a lifelong catholic, i have always been pro-life,” he said in a statement this week. “as a catholic, i do not support abortion, however, we cannot have an outright ban. there must be exceptions in the case of rape, incest and danger to the life of the mother.”, mr. cuellar has repeatedly insisted that his stance mirrors the views of voters in the district. though there has not been any public district-level polling on the issue, 2018 data from the public religion research institute found that hispanics in texas are less likely than other americans to say they believe abortion should be legal in all cases, with 53 percent saying it should be illegal in most or all cases. gallup’s values and beliefs poll last year found that low-income voters are also more likely to identify themselves as “pro life,” a trend that has held steady for several years and could be a factor in mr. cuellar’s largely working-class district. but in a poll from the texas politics project at the university of texas at austin released last june, 54 percent of hispanics said they were opposed to a ban on abortion if roe v. wade was overturned., just two days after the draft opinion was leaked, mr. cuellar campaigned alongside representative james e. clyburn, the house majority whip and third-ranking democrat. mr. clyburn’s visit, which had been announced before the leaked opinion, put him in an awkward spotlight — supporting the only democrat to vote against the women’s health protection act, a bill that would have codified roe v. wade into law., mr. clyburn defended the incumbent, saying democrats are a “big-tent party.”, “i don’t believe we ought to have a litmus test in the democratic party,” he told reporters in san antonio. “we have to bring as many people into the party as we possibly can.”, mr. cuellar also has the support of nancy pelosi, the house speaker, and steny hoyer, the majority leader. he frequently touts their endorsements, leaving many progressives privately grumbling that party leaders’ promises to fight for abortion rights in congress ring hollow., but several texas democratic officials cautioned against the idea that an intense focus on abortion would reshape the race. asked how the leaked draft supreme court opinion overturning roe v. wade might change the runoff, gilberto hinojosa, the chairman of the texas democratic party, sounded skeptical that it would fundamentally alter the dynamics of the contest, as some advocates have predicted. south texas, he said, is “a different place.”, angie martinez, a 40-year-old bartender, said that while she supports abortion rights, it will not prevent her from voting for mr. cuellar., “people are happy with the guy,” she said, adding that he had helped bring more funding into the district. “if abortion ends, it’s ok. women go to nuevo laredo for abortions,” she said, referring to the mexican city across the border from laredo., but maxine rebeles, a 39-year-old middle school writing teacher, said she is eager to see mr. cuellar out of office., “he doesn’t protect our water, and he doesn’t protect our women,” ms. rebeles said. “when the government forces women to have children too young, bring children into unloving households, born to mothers who don’t love themselves, they get into a bad cycle.”, james dobbins reported from laredo, jennifer medina from los angeles and katie glueck from new york., by jonathan weisman, the republican-on-republican blood feud developing in west virginia is only over a single house seat, but the outcome of tuesday’s primary between representatives david mckinley and alex mooney will signal the direction of a potential republican majority in congress: will it be a party of governance or one purely of ideology, driven by former president donald j. trump?, redistricting and west virginia’s shrinking population forced the state’s republican legislature to pit mr. mckinley, a six-term republican with a pragmatic bent, against mr. mooney, who has served four terms marked more by conservative rhetoric than legislative achievements., mr. mckinley has the backing of much of the state’s power structure, including its governor, jim justice, and, in recent days, its democratic senator, joe manchin iii. mr. mooney, however, may have the endorsement that matters most: mr. trump’s — in a state that gave the former president 69 percent of the vote in 2020., neither candidate could exactly be called a moderate republican, but mr. mckinley thought his primary bid would be framed around his technocratic accomplishments, his support for the bipartisan infrastructure bill that was co-written by mr. manchin and his attentiveness to a state used to — and still in need of — federal attention., on thursday, he and governor justice were in the state’s northern panhandle, not for a campaign rally but to visit a high-tech metal alloy plant., mr. mooney’s campaign does not go for nuance. his is built around one thing: mr. trump’s endorsement., the former president sided with mr. mooney after mr. mckinley voted for the infrastructure bill as well as for legislation to create a bipartisan commission to examine the jan. 6, 2021, attack on the capitol — legislation that was filibustered by republicans in the senate., “alex is the only candidate in this race that has my complete and total endorsement,” mr. trump says in a radio advertisement blanketing the state. the former president goes on to blast mr. mckinley as a “rino” — “republican in name only” — “who supported the fake infrastructure bill that wasted hundreds of billions of dollars on the green new deal” and speaker nancy pelosi’s “phony narrative” on jan. 6 that went “against the interests of west virginia.”, a television advertisement also featuring mr. trump tells viewers that mr. mooney defended the former president from ms. pelosi’s “jan. 6 witch hunt.”, sensing that any high-minded campaign on accomplishments was simply not going to work, mr. mckinley has hit back at “maryland mooney” as a carpetbagger — he once headed the maryland republican party and ran for office in new hampshire — who is under investigation by the house ethics committee for charges that he improperly used campaign dollars and staff for personal gain., most remarkably, mr. mckinley has turned to a democrat, mr. manchin, for his closing argument., “alex mooney has proven he’s all about alex mooney, but west virginians know that david mckinley is all about us,” mr. manchin says in a mckinley campaign ad. he also calls mr. mooney a liar for suggesting that mr. mckinley supported the far-reaching climate change and social welfare bill that mr. manchin killed., all of this is somewhat extraordinary in a state where federal largess has made politicians like the now-deceased senator robert c. byrd and his protégé, mr. manchin, folk heroes. but the state has changed in the trump era, and loyalties have hardened, said scott widmeyer, co-founder of the stubblefield institute for civil political communications at shepherd university in shepherdstown, w.v., “we’ve seen heated political races, but i don’t think anything has been as nasty and down and dirty as this one,” he said. “republicans are eating their own.”, institute officials invited both candidates to a debate, but only mr. mckinley accepted. they then suggested that the candidates come separately to town hall meetings. only mr. mckinley accepted., mr. mooney is the one evincing confidence, however. mr. mckinley entered the race at a structural advantage. the state’s newly drawn district includes 19 of the 20 counties mr. mckinley previously represented and only eight of the 17 counties in mr. mooney’s current district. mr. mooney’s biggest population center, the capital in charleston, was sent to representative carol miller, the only other west virginian in the house., but mr. trump is popular in every west virginia county, and on the power of his name, mr. mooney has been posting polls from national and local outfits showing him up by double digits ahead of tuesday’s primary., aides close to mr. mckinley say the race will be close, and as long as mr. trump does not swoop into the state at the last minute for a get-out-the-vote rally, either candidate could still win a low-turnout affair. one campaign official said many voters who long ago abandoned the democrats but not their democratic party registration have been re-registering as independents or republicans to vote against mr. mooney., jonathan kott, a former spokesman and adviser to mr. manchin, said the democratic senator has “a genuine friendship and working relationship” with mr. mckinley, a point mr. manchin made during a local radio interview last week., but what seems to have really pushed the democratic senator to intervene in a republican primary was not his friendship with mr. mckinley but his anger over mr. mooney’s opposition to the infrastructure bill., “mooney’s vote against the infrastructure bill shows he isn’t interested in what’s best for west virginia,” mr. kott said., in the radio interview, mr. manchin also took a swipe at “maryland mooney.”, “alex came here, i think, for political opportunity. i can’t figure any other reason,” he told the radio host hoppy kercheval., it is only one house seat in a very particular state, but the narrative of the west virginia race has caught the attention of a wider audience trying to divine how firmly mr. trump has the republican party in his grip., “i think we’ll all be watching the returns tuesday night,” mr. widmeyer said, alluding to the author j.d. vance’s come-from-behind victory in the republican senate primary in ohio after mr. trump endorsed him. “this will be the second week where we’re watching the influence of trump on one candidate.”, by reid j. epstein, wahoo, neb. — in his run for governor of nebraska, charles w. herbster is doing his best imitation of former president donald j. trump., his 90-minute stump speech is packed with complaints about illegal immigrants, stories boasting of his business triumphs, a conspiracy theory connecting china, the coronavirus pandemic and the 2020 election, and denials of the recent accusations that he’s groped women at political events., he even vows to clean up the “swamp” — but he means lincoln, the state capital., like his political role model — and chief backer — mr. herbster is proving to be a one-man political wrecking ball. in a state long known for genteel, collaborative politics and, for the last 24 years, one-party rule, mr. herbster’s bid has cracked his party into three camps, with trump supporters, establishment conservatives and business-friendly moderates battling for power. a major donor for years to conservative candidates, mr. herbster has been abandoned by longtime political allies and seen his running mate quit his ticket to run for governor herself. the allegations of groping are coming from fellow republicans., behind all the drama is a question with resonance far beyond nebraska. mr. trump’s endorsement of mr. herbster, a major donor to mr. trump’s political career, isn’t just the first-time candidate’s top credential — it is his campaign’s entire rationale. mr. trump’s name is on mr. herbster’s lawn signs, ads and billboards. mr. herbster spent friday stumping across western nebraska with stephen moore, the former trump economic adviser who is a minor trumpworld celebrity., mr. herbster is about to find out if a trump endorsement alone is enough to win a major republican primary., “this is a proxy war between the entire republican establishment in america against president donald j. trump,” mr. herbster, who campaigns wearing a white cowboy hat and a black vest bearing the logo of his cattle semen business, said in an interview thursday. “anybody who the establishment cannot control, they are fearful of.”, mr. herbster, a longtime trump ally who was with members of the trump family during the jan. 6, 2021, attack on the capitol, is running against jim pillen, a university of nebraska regent who is backed by the state’s powerful ricketts family political machine, and brett lindstrom, a youthful state senator who has consolidated support from the party’s remaining moderates and democrats. more than 8,000 democrats and independents have switched their registration in recent weeks to have some influence on a governor’s contest in an overwhelmingly republican state. polling in the final days before tuesday’s vote shows the race is a three-way dead heat., if ohio’s recent senate primary is a guide, the three-way race is working in mr. herbster’s favor. the trump-endorsed candidate for senate, j.d. vance, won in a crowded field, taking less than one-third of the vote. (there’s precedent for this in nebraska. eight years ago, gov. pete ricketts won the nomination with just over a quarter of the vote.), but mr. trump’s touch is looking less golden in other states, particularly in two-way contests for governor. in georgia, former senator david perdue, mr. trump’s choice, is lagging far behind gov. brian kemp in polling, leading mr. trump to distance himself from that campaign. in idaho, the former president has backed lt. gov. janice mcgeachin’s challenge against gov. brad little. ms. mcgeachin has struggled to gain traction, and mr. trump hasn’t mentioned her since his endorsement in november., mr. trump has thrown his full weight behind mr. herbster. on sunday, he traveled to nebraska for a rally and appeared on a conference call for herbster supporters thursday night, where he cast mr. herbster’s rivals as “republicans in name only.”, “charles was a die-hard maga champion,” mr. trump said on the call. “when you vote for charles in the primary, you can give a stinging rebuke to the rinos and sellouts and the losers who are so poorly representing your state.”, like mr. trump in the 2016 republican presidential primary, mr. herbster is facing accusations that he has mistreated women and tried to use that fact to gain support. two women, including a state senator, publicly accused him of groping them at a political event in 2019. mr. herbster has denied the claims and broadcast a tv ad slamming his accuser., “any allegation that was sent my way is 100 percent totally false,” he said in an interview., he has repeatedly blamed the accusations on mr. ricketts, a conservative two-term incumbent who cannot run again because of term limits. the ricketts family has feuded with mr. trump. it spent millions on a last-ditch effort to block mr. trump from winning the republican presidential nomination in 2016; trump then said the family better “be careful.”, mr. ricketts, who tried talking mr. trump out of endorsing mr. herbster last year, is blunt about his opposition to mr. herbster’s bid. he considers the groping allegations disqualifying. should mr. herbster win the republican nomination, mr. ricketts will not endorse him unless he “apologizes to the women he’s done this to,” he said in an interview., mr. herbster was facing criticism well before the allegations. some republicans bristled at his focus on the sort of divisive cultural issues that don’t typically dominate the political conservation in the state. he campaigns on eliminating sex education in nebraska’s public schools, cracking down on illegal immigration and curbing china’s influence., in july, his running mate, the former state senator theresa thibodeau, quit the ticket and later jumped into the race herself. she said mr. herbster had little interest in anything other than trying to emulate mr. trump., “if you want to lead the state, you should get your knowledge up on policies that affect our state,” she said on thursday. “he had no initiative or willingness to do that.”, but mr. herbster’s message resonated with trump conservatives, and soon one of his rivals followed suit. mr. pillen, a 66-year-old former defensive back for the university of nebraska’s football team with a grandfatherly demeanor, promised to ban critical race theory at the university of nebraska and bar transgender women from participating in women’s sports or using women’s bathrooms., “both the pillen and the herbster campaigns have focused on national issues of which they have little control over and they should have been more focused on state issues,” said former gov. dave heineman, a republican who was on mr. herbster’s payroll after leaving office. he hasn’t yet made an endorsement., mr. pillen downplayed mr. trump’s influence in the race., “nebraskans, we like to figure things out and solve our own problems and think for ourselves,” he said., mr. lindstrom, a 41-year-old state senator who also played football for nebraska, is running a campaign transported from the pre-trump era. he highlights cooperation with democrats in nebraska’s unicameral legislature and, while he said he had no regrets about voting twice for mr. trump, said he’d prefer “a new face” in 2024., while nebraska’s republican primaries are typically decided by conservative rural voters who are deeply loyal to mr. trump, mr. lindstrom, a wonky financial adviser, is betting his campaign on appealing to urban professionals around omaha — where mr. trump lost one of the state’s electoral college votes to president biden., “the style and brand that’s going on in the republican party right now has created a lot of wedges,” mr. lindstrom said. “that isn’t really healthy.”, at a wednesday fund-raiser for mr. lindstrom at an upscale italian restaurant in omaha, about half of the two dozen people interviewed said they voted for mr. biden in 2020. a handful had switched parties to vote for mr. lindstrom in the primary., allen frederickson, the chief executive of a health care company who became a republican to vote for mr. lindstrom, said electing mr. herbster would make it hard to recruit workers to nebraska’s booming economy, which has the nation’s lowest unemployment rate., “trumpism would impact our internal and external image as a state,” he said. “we need nebraska to be an appealing state from a business perspective.”, mr. herbster makes little effort to appeal outside of the trump constituency. he begins his speeches, whether to trump-hatted supporters in wahoo or bankers in the omaha suburbs, by offering “greetings from the 45th president of the united states of america, donald j. trump.”, like mr. trump, mr. herbster casts doubt on the legitimacy of american elections. in wahoo, he posited an outlandish theory about the former president’s loss., “this is the truth,” he told supporters. “the pandemic came from china. it was timed perfectly to make sure that they could rig the elections so mark zuckerberg could put $400 million into the toll the last four months of the election. because whether you like it or not, they didn’t want donald j. trump to be president for two terms, that’s exactly what happened.”, mr. herbster has little use for or interest in the traditions of nebraska politics. he called for ending the state’s system of nonpartisan elections, eliminating the state board of education and said that, on his first day in office, he’d demand the tourism bureau change its quirky slogan: “nebraska. honestly, it’s not for everyone.”, the question nebraska’s republican primary voters will settle on tuesday is whether any of that matters — or matters more than mr. trump’s stamp of approval., “it’s everything,” said former representative lee terry of omaha, a herbster supporter. “there’s a lot of trump people in nebraska.”, an earlier version of this article misspelled the first name of a former advisor to president donald j. trump. it is stephen moore, not steven.][election 2022, midterms 2022 daily briefing, pennsylvania is the midterm campaigns’ biggest abortion battleground., pennsylvania is the midterm campaigns’ biggest abortion battleground., abortion politics pose a test for south texas democrats., advertisement, a blood feud in west virginia involves a familiar figure: trump., in nebraska, a trump-inspired candidate cracks open a divide in the g.o.p., site information navigation]midterm primary elections 2022: news and updates - the new york times[, , , correction:][updates, midterms guide, primary calendar, redistricting, explained, pennsylvania is the midterm campaigns’ biggest abortion battleground. the leading republicans running for governor in the state want to outlaw abortion. the presumptive democratic nominee promises to veto any ban., abortion politics pose a test for south texas democrats., a blood feud in west virginia involves a familiar figure: trump., in nebraska, a trump-inspired candidate cracks open a divide in the g.o.p., give this article, , , © 2022 the new york times company, nytco, contact us, accessibility, work with us, advertise, t brand studio, your ad choices, privacy policy, terms of service, terms of sale, site map, canada, international, help, subscriptions]