[kyiv may 9, 5:37 p.m., moscow may 9, 5:37 p.m., washington may 9, 10:37 a.m., the russian leader praised his forces but announced no change in the military campaign, in a defiant speech at the annual victory day parade that marks the defeat of nazi germany., neil macfarquhar, anton troianovski and shashank bengali, against a backdrop of armored vehicles and soldiers in regalia, president vladimir v. putin hailed russia’s army for “fighting for the motherland,” delivering a defiant speech at the start of the annual victory day commemorations on monday that falsely depicted his invasion of ukraine as an extension of the struggle against nazism in europe., slandering ukrainian fighters as “nazis,” as he has done throughout the war, mr. putin did not announce any change in the military campaign, but sought to use the roaring military parade in moscow’s red square to channel russian pride in defeating nazi germany into support for his invasion of ukraine., significantly, he did not declare “victory” in ukraine, suggesting no end to a war after more than two months in which his army has repeatedly stumbled and is now locked in an increasingly bloody stalemate. but nor did he renew his implicit threats of nuclear war. and in a speech that appeared aimed at a domestic audience, he insisted again that russia had been forced into the war and made a rare acknowledgment of the toll of the fighting, promising that his government would do “everything to care for” the families of dead soldiers., president volodymyr zelensky of ukraine rebutted mr. putin’s reading of history, saying in a speech released on monday that the russian leader’s war was “repeating the horrific crimes of hitler’s regime today.”, russian forces have escalated their attacks across eastern and southern ukraine, unleashing a barrage of missiles and artillery across the luhansk region on monday, although they have been unable to seize much new territory. ukrainian forces, bolstered by more weapons from the united states and its allies, have waged a fierce counteroffensive in the east that has forced russian forces to redeploy to the area around the city of kharkiv, preventing them from reinforcing stalled operations elsewhere, analysts said., in other developments:, ukraine marked the may 9 holiday somberly, skipping the usual wreath-laying ceremonies, concerts and picnics, many of which were canceled under martial law., jill biden, the first lady, said she called president biden and urged him to continue supporting ukraine after she made an unannounced visit to western ukraine on sunday., in the territories they have seized in southern ukraine, russian forces are replacing road signs, routing the internet through russian servers and stepping up security, as moscow intensifies efforts to bring the occupied areas under its control., matina stevis-gridneff, the european commission president, ursula von der leyen, will travel to hungary on monday to meet with prime minister viktor orban in a bid to break the deadlock over a proposed e.u. oil embargo. mr. orban, an ally of vladimir putin, has held out in signing off on the measure, citing concerns about hungary’s energy security., stephen castle, london — as russia commemorated its victory in world war ii, britain’s defense secretary, ben wallace, accused moscow of mirroring the behavior of the nazis they defeated in 1945 by invading a sovereign country, and said that senior russian military officers were so incompetent that they should be court-martialed., in a speech in london mr. wallace derided the spectacle of decorated generals on parade in moscow, and accused president vladimir v. putin of using the memory of sacrifices made by the soviet union in the 1940s to justify an unprovoked and illegal invasion of ukraine., “through their invasion of ukraine, his inner circle and generals are now mirroring the fascism and tyranny of 77 years ago, repeating the errors of the last century’s totalitarian regimes,” mr. wallace said., the speech was timed to coincide with the may 9 military parade in moscow and mr. wallace’s rhetoric was consistent with britain’s tough line against moscow and aggressive support for the ukrainian president, volodymyr zelensky., “let’s call out the absurdity of russian generals — resplendent in their manicured parade uniforms, weighed down by their gold braid and glistening medals,” mr. wallace said. “they are utterly complicit in putin’s hijacking of their forebears’ proud history, of defending against a ruthless invasion of repelling fascism and sacrificing themselves for a higher purpose,” he added., speaking at the national army museum, mr. wallace said that “all professional soldiers should be appalled at the behavior of the russian army,” and added: “not only are they engaged in an illegal invasion and war crimes but their top brass have failed their own rank and file to the extent they should face court-martial.”, russian conscripts had, he said, been betrayed by military top brass that was guilty of bad battle preparation, poor operational planning, inadequate provision of equipment and support, and corruption., answering questions about western objectives, mr. wallace said it was “for ukraine to chose how far it wishes to go,” before an end of the conflict. “whatever they choose we will stand by them in helping deliver that,” he added., on monday britain also announced a new package of financial measures against russia and belarus targeting £1.7 billion worth of trade, including new import tariffs covering £1.4 billion worth of goods including platinum and palladium., “we are determined to do our utmost to thwart putin’s aims in ukraine and undermine his illegal invasion, which has seen barbaric acts perpetrated against the ukrainian people,” said the trade secretary anne-marie trevelyan in a statement., cassandra vinograd, charles michel, the president of the european council, is in ukraine’s southern city of odesa, which has faced missile strikes in recent days. the head of the e.u. leadership council said on twitter he came to the city “where pushkin said that ‘you can feel europe’ and where today the ukrainian people shield their monuments from bullets and rockets” to show that the e.u. stands with ukraine., cassandra vinograd, michel urged a “global response” to russia’s blockade of the black sea, tweeting that he’d seen “silos full of grain” that are ready for export but stranded., in the port of #odesa with @denys_shmyhal, i saw silos full of grain, wheat and corn ready for export. this badly needed food is stranded because of the russian war and blockade of black sea ports. causing dramatic consequences for vulnerable countries. we need a global response. pic.twitter.com/k8dz03d2cj, andrew higgins, reporting from warsaw, russia’s ambassador to poland was splashed in the face with red liquid on monday by protesters chanting “fascists” as diplomats visited a warsaw cemetery and memorial complex honoring red army soldiers killed in world war ii., the assault on moscow’s envoy to the polish capital, sergei andreev, came amid protests organized by pro-ukrainian activists aimed at disrupting russian celebrations of “victory day,” an annual holiday in russia that commemorates the defeat of nazi germany in 1945., the occasion was this year widely viewed in poland as a celebration of russia’s military onslaught against ukraine, which shares a long border with poland., a separate group of pro-ukrainian activists, covered in white blankets splattered with red dye, lay on the ground at the entrance to the warsaw memorial complex in front of a banner that read “criminals.” others waved ukrainian flags and shouted “killer” as mr. andreev arrived at the sprawling soviet-era cemetery. before the russian diplomats arrived, somebody painted the words “kill putin” in blue and yellow — the colors of the ukrainian flag — at the stone base of friezes at the center of the complex., russia’s embassy last week had urged residents of the polish capital to join its diplomats in various events planned for “victory day,” but on saturday announced it was canceling the events because “we cannot count on the polish authorities to ensure proper public order.”, poland acknowledges the soviet union’s huge contribution to the defeat of nazi germany, but feelings of gratitude have always been offset by bitter memories of how stalin connived with hitler to invade poland in 1939, two years before germany invaded soviet territory, and, after 1945, installed a communist dictatorship in warsaw., relations between warsaw and moscow, always chilly, have neared breaking point since russia invaded ukraine on feb. 24, triggering nationwide revulsion in poland, which has since taken in more than three million refugees from ukraine. poland, in the vanguard of a push to punish moscow with ever tougher economic sanctions, has become a major conduit for western arms to help ukraine defend itself., president vladimir v. putin of russia has falsely depicted his invasion of ukraine as an extension of the struggle against nazism in europe — a theme echoed by russia’s foreign ministry on monday, which said mr. andreev was assaulted when he came to lay a wreath at a cemetery of soviet soldiers., “neo-nazi fans showed their face once again — and it is bloody,” maria zakharova, the foreign ministry’s spokeswoman, said in a statement. “but as i said before, you can’t scare us. it’s the europeans who should be scared when they look at their reflection in the mirror.”, neil macfarquhar in istanbul contributed., constant méheut, in an address to the european parliament on monday, president emmanuel macron of france said europe would “do everything so that ukraine can hold on and russia can never win.” he also warned against escalating the conflict, saying european nations should not be tempted by “humiliation or the spirit of revenge.”, constant méheut, macron ruled out ukraine joining the european union in the short term. he said joining the eu would likely take ukraine decades, “unless we decide to lower the standards of this membership and therefore to completely rethink the unity of our europe.”, anton troianovski, president vladimir v. putin joined the “immortal regiment” march through moscow’s red square, carrying a portrait of his father, who fought in world war ii, state television footage showed. the founders of the annual memorial march, which began a decade ago, disassociated themselves this year from what it has become, arguing it was now too political., anton troianovski, in a brief televised meeting on monday with the father of a separatist commander killed in ukraine, president vladimir v. putin said russia had had “simply no other choice” than to fight. “all of the prepared plans are being implemented,” he said. “the result will be achieved. there is no doubt about this.”, katie rogers, reporting from bratislava, slovakia, before ending her four-day trip to eastern europe, jill biden, the first lady, said she had called president biden and told him that america needed to continue supporting ukraine., “i said just how much i saw the need to support the people of ukraine,” she said in remarks monday at the presidential palace in slovakia., dr. biden added that she told her husband about “the horrors and the brutality that the people i had met had experienced.”, on sunday, dr. biden made a secretive trip to western ukraine, crossing the border to visit ukraine’s first lady, olena zelenska, at a school converted to assist people who had fled fighting from other parts of the country., it was a rare visit to a war zone by a sitting first lady — the last to travel to one alone was laura bush, who visited afghanistan in 2008 — and was the latest show of u.s. support for ukraine. the biden administration has led western allies in pledging billions of dollars in military and economic assistance to help ukraine counter russia’s invasion., dr. biden is scheduled to return to washington later monday., cassandra vinograd, russia’s ambassador to poland was doused in red paint when he went to lay a wreath at a cemetery for soviet soldiers in warsaw, according to state news agency ria novosti. it posted a video showing sergey andreev, the ambassador, with red paint on his face and shirt as protesters, some with ukrainian flags, chanted around him., marc santora, just before president vladimir v. putin of russia presided over victory day in moscow with a parade of powerful weapons, president volodymyr zelensky of ukraine released a video on monday in which he walked alone through the streets of kyiv., “on the day of victory over nazism, we are fighting for a new victory,” zelensky said as he walked past government buildings protected with barriers and barbed wire. “the road to it is difficult, but we have no doubt that we will win.”, the slickly produced video was an attempt to turn mr. putin’s justification for his invasion of ukraine against the russian leader., the kremlin has offered multiple rationales for its invasion, but mr. putin has repeatedly returned to the false argument that the ukrainian government is run by nazis who were oppressing and even committing a “genocide” against russian-speakers across ukraine. in his speech at the start of the parade on monday, he again cast his invasion as a fight against nazism., it is a lie that military analysts say has played a role in undermining the russian invasion — with russian soldiers surprised that they were not greeted as liberators., ukraine’s defense minister, oleksii reznikov, said this weekend that by destroying mostly russian-speaking cities in eastern ukraine, russian soldiers “essentially took revenge and retaliated further against russian-speaking ukrainians who did not meet them with flowers, as they had dreamed they would.”, in his video, mr. zelensky turned mr. putin’s argument on its head, accusing him of carrying on the legacy of adolf hitler and the forces of fascism., ukraine’s 20th century history is complicated and stained with blood. much of what is present-day ukraine became a republic of the soviet union after world war i and suffered through a famine in the 1930s under joseph stalin’s leadership. when germany invaded the soviet union in 1941, many ukrainians, especially in western ukraine, saw the germans as liberators, according to historians., ukraine’s insurgent forces led by stepan bandera fought alongside the nazis against soviet forces for a period of the war, and some russians still cite that as evidence of where ukrainian sympathies lie today. but for many ukrainians, it is a more complicated story and, however its wartime history is read, offers no justification for russia’s aggression today., mr. putin has gone even further in his misreading of history, saying that ukraine itself is an invention of the bolshevik revolutionary leader, vladimir lenin, who he said had mistakenly endowed ukraine with a sense of statehood by allowing it autonomy within the newly created soviet state., “modern ukraine was entirely and fully created by russia, more specifically the bolshevik, communist russia,” mr. putin said just days before launching his invasion., mr. zelensky has repeatedly used the russian leader’s own words to demonstrate what he says are the kremlin’s true intentions: the destruction of the ukrainian state., in the new video, he said only “a madman” would follow the path of fascists who started a war that claimed at least 50 million lives., mr putin, he said, is “the one who is repeating the horrific crimes of hitler’s regime today.”, “he is doomed,” mr. zelensky said. “because he was cursed by millions of ancestors when he began to imitate their killer. and therefore he will lose everything.”, neil macfarquhar, program descriptions on the digital schedules for several major russian television networks were changed to an antiwar message during the annual victory day parade on monday. the schedules were apparently hacked, although there was no immediate claim of responsibility., in every time slot on some online schedules and many televisions’ electronic program guides for channel 1, for example, one of the main state-run channels, the names of the programs had all been changed to: “on your hands is the blood of thousands of ukrainians and hundreds of their murdered children. tv and the authorities are lying. no to war,” according to bbc monitoring., this morning the online russian tv schedule page was hacked the name of every programme was changed to "on your hands is the blood of thousands of ukrainians and their hundreds of murdered children. tv and the authorities are lying. no to war" pic.twitter.com/p2ucnz8cqa, viewers of three cable suppliers reported that their schedules had been hacked, according to tass, a state-run news agency, quoting media reports. rostelecom, one of the suppliers, said the alteration was being investigated to try to prevent it from happening again, the tass article said., yandex, the russian equivalent of google, was not showing program information for channel 1 and rossiya 1, two major channels., yandex denied that it had been hacked, telling tass that it had been told by providers that the information it was displaying was incorrect and was taken down for that reason., in another act of defiance, workers at a formerly independent news website, lenta.ru, changed the text of existing articles monday morning to condemn the “pathetic dictator putin” and the “weak-willed russian elite” who were enabling the war in ukraine., the changes rewrote about a dozen articles, resulting in headlines such as “putin unleashed one of the bloody wars of the 21st century” and “vladimir putin has turned into a pitiful and paranoid dictator and paranoid.” another article featured the line “war makes it easier to cover up failures in the economy. putin must go. he unleashed a senseless war and is leading russia into the abyss.”, the articles, which have since disappeared from the website but have been preserved in its archive, carried a disclaimer that the materials had not been agreed with the website’s leadership., “this was not a ‘hack by hackers’ at all, this is our conscious decision, which was made relatively long ago,” yegor polyakov, who runs lenta’s sections on economics and the environment, told the independent outlet mediazona in an interview on monday. “the main reason is conscience,” he continued. “i believe that all opponents of the war now need to unite.”, valerie hopkins contributed reporting., ivan nechepurenko, it was supposed to be the most spectacular part of the victory day parade in moscow — 77 russian warplanes, from fighter jets to president vladimir v. putin’s airborne nuclear war command center, flying over red square., with millions already watching, eager for clues to mr. putin’s next moves in ukraine, event organizers announced that the fly-past was canceled due to bad weather conditions., yet the weather in moscow looked clear and no further specifics were given, raising questions about what actually prevented the aerial component of russia’s annual show of strength. reports that warplane flyovers had also been canceled in other parts of russia, from yekaterinburg in the urals to kaliningrad on the baltics, further fueled suspicions., “there cannot be hurricanes all across the country,” said yuri fyodorov, a russian military analyst, adding that bad weather “doesn’t look plausible” as an explanation., he suggested that russia might have decided not to exacerbate nuclear tensions by refraining from demonstrating its airborne command center, or moscow feared acts of sabotage., on sunday, roman vilfand, the head of russia’s state-run weather forecaster, told the interfax news agency that weather conditions in moscow were expected to be favorable for the air parade. a grand rehearsal took place on saturday with fighter jets, bombers, and helicopters flying over the city center., but army general oleg salyukov, commander of the russian ground forces, said that nine military airfields are used during the air parade, and that while the weather can look good in central moscow, that isn’t necessarily the case outside the city., “i think what you saw is already impressive,” mr. salyukov told interfax after monday’s parade., valerie hopkins, russia’s embattled independent media and opposition watched the may 9 parade lamenting the way president vladimir v. putin has manipulated history to try to falsely connect his invasion of ukraine with the soviet union’s role in defeating nazi germany., a holiday that had united people across the former soviet union is now being rejected by those who oppose the kremlin’s war., “forget the 9th of may. this is not your holiday,” mikhail khodorkovsky, a former billionaire who is critical of mr. putin, wrote on telegram, the messaging app. he had observed the holiday since childhood, he said, but rejected it this year because of the invasion of ukraine that began on feb. 24, “under the signs of fascist evil spirits.”, anna mongayt, an independent journalist, streamed the parade on her youtube channel, interspersing the official video with her own commentary and interviews with people along the route., “before, this was a show of military-technical equipment that we saw once per year,” said ms. mongayt, who is now in exile in georgia. “now we see these as the weapons of death, and there are concrete deaths, real corpses. it is impossible to remain indifferent. i don’t understand how people can stand there and clap.”, a colleague of hers, vasya polonsky, was in moscow, but people he approached for interviews on the street did not want to comment on the war in ukraine., ms. mongayt ended her stream with a video, subtitled in russian, that president volodymyr zelensky of ukraine published on sunday, in which he accused mr. putin of being “the one who is repeating the horrific crimes of hitler’s regime today, following nazi philosophy, copying everything they did.”, other opponents of mr. putin called on russians to remember the true antifascist history of the holiday., “our ancestors died for peace, not for war, and only we can ensure it,” wrote garry kasparov, a russian chess grandmaster and a prominent critic of mr. putin, on telegram., anton troianovski, president vladimir v. putin used his victory day speech on monday to try to channel russian pride in defeating nazi germany into support for this year’s invasion of ukraine. but contrary to some expectations he did not make any new announcements signaling a mass mobilization for the war effort or an escalation of the onslaught., mr. putin, speaking in moscow’s red square on russia’s most important secular holiday, marking the anniversary of the soviet victory in world war ii, restated his past claims that attacking ukraine was “inevitable” and “the only correct decision.” he said russian troops in eastern ukraine were fighting “on their land,” an indication that mr. putin had no plans to relinquish control of the territory his forces had taken in recent months., “you are fighting for the motherland, for its future, so that no one forgets the lessons of world war ii,” mr. putin said, addressing russian forces in ukraine. “so that there is no place in the world for executioners, punishers and nazis.”, it was, as expected, a call to battle using rhetoric slandering ukraine’s defenders as “nazis” while evoking russia’s victorious world war ii past — perhaps the most unifying element of the country’s diverse identity. in a rare acknowledgment of the ukraine war’s toll, mr. putin said the death of every soldier was a “grief for all of us” and promised that the government would do “everything to care for” the families of the dead; he said he had signed a decree on monday to give “special support to the children of dead and wounded comrades.”, but the speech was also conspicuous for what it did not include., mr. putin did not try to frame any part of the ukraine war as a “victory,” offering no signal of an imminent end to the conflict. his army’s efforts have fallen well short of expectations: they have been vanquished around kyiv, ukraine’s capital; pushed back in the northeast; and are making only sporadic gains in the donbas, the eastern region russia now says it is focused on., mr. putin spoke from his rostrum set up by the lenin mausoleum, overseeing moscow’s traditional victory day military parade. it featured 11,000 participants and 131 armored vehicles, but an aircraft flyover was canceled because of bad weather, the kremlin said., the russian leader did not renew his implicit threats of nuclear war, after warning late last month that countries that “create a strategic threat to russia” during the war in ukraine could expect “retaliatory strikes” that would be “lightning fast.”, mr. putin did lash out at the united states, as he has in the past, depicting america as the true aggressor and russia as a stronghold of patriotism and “traditional values.” he also made plain his ever-more-open nostalgia for the soviet empire, describing may 9, 1945, as a day of triumph for “our united soviet people.”, he mentioned belarusian and ukrainian cities among the ones that red army soldiers fighting for their “fatherland” defended: kyiv, minsk, sevastopol and kharkiv., “the united states of america, especially after the collapse of the soviet union, started talking about its exclusivity, thereby humiliating not only the whole world, but also its satellites, who have to pretend that they do not notice anything and meekly swallow it all,” mr. putin said. “but we are a different country. russia has a different character. we will never give up love for the motherland, faith and traditional values, the customs of our ancestors, respect for all peoples and cultures.”, emma bubola and valeriya safronova, in a suburb of aachen, in the west of germany, alex ebert, 11, was on the bus back from school, his mother said, when four boys told him that he was killing ukrainian children., one of them, who he told her had pushed him the week before and called him a slur used for russians, slammed alex’s head into the window and kicked him in the stomach and back. alex, who speaks russian because his parents are from kazakhstan, got out at a bus stop and sat on the ground until strangers in a car stopped and picked him up., “he was crying and hurting,” said his mother, svetlana ebert. “he doesn’t understand what he has to do with it.”, president vladimir v. putin’s invasion has killed hundreds of ukrainian children, orphaned many more and displaced millions, and wrecked homes and schools. but it has also crept into the lives of russian-speaking children across europe, who have found themselves paying for mr. putin’s aggression in humiliation, harassment and bullying — another perverse effect of a war that is overwhelmingly affecting the innocent., “this problem is growing every day,” said carsten stahl, germany’s most prominent anti-bullying activist, who said he had received scores of reports of bullying of russian-speaking students. “i’m very angry and very ashamed.”, in classrooms around europe, children bewildered by the war have asked questions and gotten answers. but as their governments have sought to isolate russia both culturally and politically, they have also poured out their fears, and sometimes looked for culprits or mimicked adults’ hostility, with the risk of creating new breeding grounds for violence and intimidation in a continent that is once again enduring war., “if we put it in their head that it is ok to hate and bully, it stays for a very long time,” mr. stahl said. “children are the mirror of our society.”, world events have often supplied excuses for bullying. the covid-19 pandemic brought a wave of harassment for asian children, and in 2016, after a series of islamic state terrorist attacks, muslim children reported an increase in bullying. now, mr. stahl said, distress over the war in ukraine has added new targets for the kind of vindictive behavior that can lead children to avoid school and, in some cases, result in depression and suicidal thoughts., in harsefeld, a town outside hamburg, anastasia makisson, 13, who is russian-german, received several anonymous notes in school calling her a nazi and urging her to go back to russia to “drink vodka with putin.”, she said students had also come up to her and shouted, “putin!” anastasia liked school, but since the latest notes appeared in april, she has not gone back out of fear. “i’m scared someone could hit me,” she said in an interview. “everybody stares at me. it’s as if they’re thinking, ‘eww, she’s russian.’”, her father, ilya makisson, said the school had promised to investigate but had not acted so far; the school did not respond to a request for comment., about a week after russia invaded ukraine, elisa spadoni, 13, who is russian-italian, wrapped up her homework at her house in central italy and checked her class whatsapp group. in the chat, one classmate called her “daughter of putin.” another message read, “you might as well die.”, when the girl asked her classmates to stop, one boy replied, “we will stop once you will stop throwing missiles on ukraine.” he also wrote: “tomorrow i will beat her up.”, elisa, usually an enthusiastic, dedicated student, told her mother she no longer wanted to go to school., “i was ashamed,” said elisa. “i wished i didn’t have half-russian origins.”, when her father reported the harassment to her teacher, she discussed the issue in class, elisa said. but her mother said that elisa waited several days before opening up about the messages; her mother learned only from classmates that she had been crying at school., like elisa, many of the russian-speaking children who have been targeted have tried to keep it quiet; in some cases, out of shame, as often happens with bullying. among those who spoke up, some parents feared that discussing incidents could result in more trouble for their children, or make them seem supportive of the war., but organizations and some authorities around europe have still sensed a problem., “classmates — whatever their nationality — are not to blame for the aggressor’s actions,” the lithuanian education minister, jurgita siugzdiniene, said in a statement to schools., “let’s leave the kids out of this,” gianmarco medusei, the president of the regional council in the northern italian region of liguria, said on television. the charity save the children in denmark also expressed concerns. “no child should be bullied for what adults choose to do,” it said in a statement., anna-mariia kraevskaia hansen, 14, said that in her small school in the danish city of horsens some of her classmates started pointing at her in the corridors, saying, “look at this spy.”, some children told her that she should go home to russia, and others that she might throw bombs at them., “some kids just think it’s funny,” anna-mariia said. “it was really painful.”, her mother, nelli kraevskaia hansen, said that anna-mariia had trouble sleeping and took some sick days from school because she felt drained., morten tido madsen, one of anna-mariia’s teachers, took some students aside and asked them why they said mean things to her or others. some said “to be funny and smart,” or that they “did not care.” mr. madsen asked if they would like to receive similar comments and said he knew that they cared because they are kind people who don’t want to hurt others., “what is important for the kids is: do they want to be a bad guy or a good guy?” he said. “no kid wants to be a bad guy.”, sometimes mr. madsen asked anna-mariia to join them and share how she felt about the comments., “they see she is anna-mariia, she is a student, not a country,” he said. “she doesn’t have to apologize for the actions of putin.”, as the case of alex, the boy from aachen, shows, bullying and harassment affect not only russian children, because many people speak russian in former soviet republics like estonia, kazakhstan and ukraine itself. russian is the fifth most widely spoken foreign language in europe, according to a european commission report., in london, yaroslav fedorov, 11, who is russian, and a ukrainian friend were leaving school when three older boys stopped them. “they said to us, ‘why are you speaking russian? we’ll beat you up,’” he said in a phone call. the head teacher spoke with the older boys after he complained, yaroslav said. the school declined to comment., karolina krilova, 14, originally from estonia, was standing with a friend on an empty train platform in vantaa, finland, when two teenage boys approached them and accused them of supporting the war and loving mr. putin, then threw empty energy drink cans at them., in germany, alex’s mother, ms. ebert, said that after she exerted considerable pressure, the school scheduled a meeting with the boy who kicked and slammed alex, and his parents, where he apologized. the boys who shouted abuse, and their parents, were later called to similar meetings. the school did not respond to requests for comment., at the hospital after the attack on the school bus, a doctor diagnosed alex with syncope (or passing out), a headache, very strong stomach pains and nausea, according to a medical document shared with the new york times., “at first i felt hatred toward this boy who beat him up,” ms. ebert said. “but i understood a week later, this is a child, too. he’s not guilty.”, jane arraf, reporting from kyiv, ukraine marked the may 9 holiday to commemorate the end of world war ii somberly on monday, skipping the usual wreath-laying ceremonies, concerts and picnics and instead focusing on russia’s next move in the war., in kyiv, the city’s mayor, vitali klitschko, appealed to residents not to hold gatherings and said that events normally held to mark the holiday were canceled because of martial law., on saturday, long lines of cars headed out of the city to villages and towns thought to be safer, despite fuel shortages caused by russian attacks and blockades., in the relatively calm western part of the country, the mayor of lviv, andriy sadovyi, urged residents to check their bomb shelters and asked them not to waste gasoline by leaving the city. many had already left to stay with relatives in the countryside., ukraine holds some world war ii commemorations on may 8, but celebrates may 9 as the day of victory over nazi germany. at kyiv’s world war ii museum on sunday, a boy and a girl skipped along the tops of tanks in a courtyard while a giant ukrainian flag fluttered nearby in the spring breeze., their mother, nataly zhaldak, 35, said she had come with her family after church to commemorate the war dead, as they do every year. “our ancestors gave their lives so that we could live,” she said. “we want to hold the memory and give that memory to our children so they can pass it on to their children.”, jane arraf, in kyiv, at a monument to fallen soldiers, small groups of ukrainians gathered to lay tulips and poppies near a memorial flame. they included families with small boys wearing wwii-style caps, religious officials and veterans of the soviet war in afghanistan., neil macfarquhar, only two u.s. presidents have attended a victory day parade in red square. president bill clinton was there in 1995 for the 50th anniversary of the end of world war ii. president george w. bush sat next to president putin during the parade in 2005. president trump weighed accepting an invitation in 2020, but decided not to go, citing the election., ivan nechepurenko, despite earlier rehearsals, the aerial part of the parade has been cancelled because of weather conditions. the parade is now over, with mr. putin now walking to lay flowers to the tomb of the unknown soldier., ivan nechepurenko, mounted on armored vehicles, a formation of paratroopers, who arrived from battlefields in ukraine, rolled over red square., neil macfarquhar, angela merkel, then chancellor of germany, skipped the parade on the 70th anniversary of the end of world war ii in 2015. but she came the following day to lay a wreath at the tomb of the unknown soldier near the kremlin wall, and talked about the need for dialogue to end conflicts. after the invasion of ukraine, germany has faced some criticism for not being tough enough in its relations with moscow., ivan nechepurenko, heavy-duty military equipment, of the kind used in ukraine, are taking part in the parade, including msta howitzers, buk-m3 missile systems and t72 battle tanks. overall, 131 armored and other vehicles are taking part in the procession on red square., ivan nechepurenko, apart from moscow, smaller-scale parades have been taking place in 27 other russian cities from vladivostok on the pacific ocean to kaliningrad in central europe. overall, more than 50,000 troops are taking part in the processions., ivan nechepurenko, the procession of servicemen opens with formations from russian military academies, who are not likely to be taking part in combat in ukraine. overall, around 11,000 servicemen are taking part in the parade in moscow, down from 12,000 last year., neil macfarquhar, no foreign dignitaries were invited to this year’s parade, the kremlin said. most western leaders have boycotted the parades since 2014, after russia annexed crimea and started a separatist war in eastern ukraine., matina stevis-gridneff, european union talks to finalize an embargo on russian oil were due to resume on monday, after hungary refused to sign off on the measure over the weekend. the delay means that the e.u. is unlikely to adopt the move by the end of monday, as many had hoped., anton troianovski, president vladimir v. putin’s speech at the red square parade was longer than usual, but did not make any major news. he spent much of it justifying his invasion of ukraine, describing it as he has in the past as an “the inevitable, timely and only correct decision.”, marc santora, moments before president vladimir putin spoke in moscow at the parade, president volodymyr zelensky accused putin of “repeating the horrific crimes of hitler’s regime today, following nazi philosophy, copying everything they did.” zelensky said the russian leader would fail., ivan nechepurenko, some of the service members taking part in the parade have arrived directly from the battlefields in ukraine, putin said. russia has suffered heavy losses during the war. while the last report of casualties by russia’s defense ministry said 1,351 servicemen were lost, at least 2,099 were reported dead or missing, according to local media reports., anton troianovski, president vladimir v. putin ends his speech with: “to russia! to victory! hooray!” the soldiers on red square respond with “hooray!” contrary to some expectations, putin did not make any major news in this speech., anton troianovski, president vladimir v. putin, as expected, is casting the war in ukraine as a continuation of world war ii, falsely casting ukrainian fighters as nazis. addressing russian soldiers in ukraine in his speech, he said, “you are fighting for the homeland, for its future, for no one to forget the lessons of world war ii.”, dan bilefsky and anton troianovski, marked by grandiose speeches, a colossal parade and a show of military might on red square, russia’s victory day on may 9, a holiday celebrating the soviet union’s vanquishing of nazi germany, has taken on particular resonance this year with russia mired in the war in ukraine., the holiday takes place as russian state television broadcasts bellicose messages about supposed nazis in ukraine, and as the kremlin leads a stumbling, grinding offensive that has cost thousands of russians and ukrainians their lives., slandering ukrainian fighters as “nazis,” as he has done throughout the war, mr. putin on monday did not announce any change in the military campaign. but he sought to use the pomp of the military parade in moscow’s red square to channel russian pride in defeating nazi germany into support for his invasion of ukraine. significantly, he did not declare “victory” in ukraine nor did he renew his implicit threats of nuclear war., in years past, mr. putin has used may 9 — a near-sacred holiday for russians to remember the 27 million soviets who died in world war ii — to mobilize the nation for the possibility of a new battle ahead. when he addressed the nation from his rostrum at red square on may 9 last year, he warned that russia’s enemies were deploying once again “much of the ideology of the nazis.”, now, russian state media is referring to ukrainians who have resisted the russian invasion as “nazis,” and portraying the fight as the unfinished business of world war ii. the narratives mr. putin has been spinning to justify his war in ukraine are very much in line with the grand, nostalgic narratives of victory day., victory day military parades in major russian cities are followed by marches of ordinary citizens carrying pictures of relatives who fought in the war. hundreds of thousands, if not millions, take part in “immortal regiment” marches honoring the soldiers and civilians who fought and died in the war. on red square, the event also features a display of historical military weapons, modern tanks and missile systems and other expressions of russian military grandeur., over more than two decades, mr. putin has helped transform victory day into the most important holiday of the year, a joyous, nostalgic ritual that buttresses national pride and unifies a sometimes divided society., in recent years, the parade on victory day — once attended by dignitaries from china, germany and the united states, among others — has also reflected russia’s growing isolation, with many foreign leaders staying away. mr. putin’s spokesman said last week that no foreign leaders had been invited to this year’s event, the 77th anniversary of the victory., the language of russia’s invasion of ukraine has been dominated by the word “nazi” — a bizarre contention about a country whose president, volodymyr zelensky, is jewish, and last fall signed a law combating antisemitism. mr. putin has applied the word regularly to the country’s present-day government in recent months, though he has long referred to ukraine’s pro-western revolution of 2014 as a fascist coup., the “nazi” slur’s sudden emergence shows how mr. putin is trying to use stereotypes, distorted reality and his country’s lingering world war ii trauma to justify his invasion of ukraine. the kremlin is casting the war as a continuation of russia’s fight against evil in what is known in the country as the great patriotic war. he appears to be counting on lingering russian pride in the victory over nazi germany to carry over into support for the war in ukraine., cora engelbrecht, russian troops have started storming the azovstal steel plant in mariupol, after the departure of a humanitarian convoy carrying the remaining civilians who were holed up at the plant, according to an adviser to the city council. the account could not be independently verified., anton troianovski, president vladimir v. putin has started speaking at moscow’s victory day parade on red square., ivan nechepurenko, the victory day parade in moscow usually takes about a little over one hour with the defense minister greeting soldiers, followed by a speech by the president. that is followed by a procession of soldiers and cadets, then military equipment. it usually ends with an aerial part with fighter jets, bombers, and other warcraft flying over red square., anton troianovski, the aerial portion of moscow’s victory day parade on monday has been canceled because of the weather, the kremlin said. russian media reported that warplanes were expected to fly over moscow in a “z” formation, the symbol of support for the ukraine war., neil macfarquhar, in years past, the parade was one of the last places to see the zil limousines that were used to ferry around the leaders of the soviet union. the zil factory fell victim to the collapse of the soviet union and is now being redeveloped as a residential neighborhood., anton troianovski, the victory day parade has begun in red square, with the kremlin bell chiming 10 a.m. moscow time., neil macfarquhar, the generals starting the parade are riding in a convertible version of the aurus senat, a limousine that putin ordered built in russia and that was first presented to him in 2018. putin had used a mercedes limousine for years, but replacing that became another symbol of this effort to show that russia was a great power., eshe nelson, for the second time in less than a decade, elvira nabiullina is steering russia’s economy through treacherous waters., in 2014, facing a collapsing ruble and soaring inflation after barely a year as head of the central bank of russia, ms. nabiullina forced the institution into the modern era of economic policymaking by sharply raising interest rates. the politically risky move slowed the economy, tamed soaring prices and won her an international reputation as a tough decision maker., in the world of central bankers, among technocrats tasked with keeping prices under control and financial systems stable, ms. nabiullina became a rising star for using orthodox policies to manage an unruly economy often tethered to the price of oil. in 2015, she was named central bank governor of the year by euromoney magazine. three years later, christine lagarde, then the head of the international monetary fund, effused that ms. nabiullina could make “central banking sing.”, now it falls to ms. nabiullina to steer russia’s economy through a deep recession, and to keep its financial system, cut off from much of the rest of the world, intact. the challenge follows years she spent strengthening russia’s financial defenses against the kind of powerful sanctions that have been wielded in response to president vladimir v. putin’s geopolitical aggression., she has guided the extraordinary rebound of russia’s currency, which lost a quarter of its value within days of the feb. 24 invasion of ukraine. the central bank took aggressive measures to stop large sums of money from leaving the country, arresting a panic in markets and halting a potential run on the banking system., in late april, russia’s parliament confirmed ms. nabiullina, 58, for five more years as chairwoman after mr. putin nominated her to serve a third term., “she’s an important beacon of stability for russia’s financial system,” said elina ribakova, the deputy chief economist of the institute of international finance, an industry group in washington. “her reappointment has symbolic value.”, in her last crisis, she turned a catastrophe into an opportunity. in 2014, russia was rocked by twin economic shocks: a collapse in oil prices — caused by a jump in u.s. production and the refusal of saudi arabia to cut production, denting russia’s oil revenue — and economic sanctions imposed after russia annexed crimea., the ruble plummeted. ms. nabiullina abandoned traditional policies — such as spending vast amounts of foreign currency reserves to support the exchange rate — and turned the bank’s focus to managing inflation. she raised interest rates to 17 percent, and they stayed relatively high for years., it was a painful readjustment, and the economy shrank for a year and a half. but by mid-2017, she had managed something that had seemed far-fetched just a few years earlier: the inflation rate fell below 4 percent, the lowest in the country’s post-soviet era., “she’s been the very model of a modern central banker,” said richard portes, a professor of economics at london business school who has shared panel stages with ms. nabiullina at conferences., “she was doing what she had to do,” he said, even when it was politically difficult. “if you want a demonstration of the alternative,” mr. portes added, “you need look only at turkey,” where years of political interference in the central bank have allowed inflation to run out of control, reaching 70 percent this month., under ms. nabiullina’s direction, the central bank kept up its modernizing efforts. it improved its communication by scheduling key policy decisions, providing guidance about policy, meeting with analysts and submitting to interviews with reporters. the central bank of russia came to be regarded as the key economic brain of the country, attracting respected economists from the private sector., at its annual conference in st. petersburg, the central bank drew economists from around the world, and ms. nabiullina attended international gatherings, including the federal reserve’s annual symposium at jackson hole in wyoming and regular meetings for central bankers held by the bank for international settlements in basel, switzerland., she has been described as personable, focused, always well-prepared, an advocate of market forces (despite her soviet-era economics education) and a fan of history and opera. born in ufa, a city more than 700 miles east of moscow known for heavy industry, she studied at moscow state university, one of the country’s most prestigious schools, and is married to a fellow economist., besides her record on monetary policy, ms. nabiullina has drawn praise for pursuing a thorough cleanup of the banking industry. in her first five years at the bank, she revoked about 400 banking licenses — essentially closing a third of russia’s banks — in an effort to cull weak institutions that were making what she termed “dubious transactions.”, it was considered a brave crusade: in 2006, a central bank official who had started a vigorous campaign to close banks suspected of money laundering was assassinated., “fighting corruption in the banking sector is a job for very courageous people,” said sergei guriev, a russian economist who left the country in 2013 and is now a professor at sciences po in paris. he called her program flawed, though, because it was largely limited to private banks. this created a moral hazard problem that left state-owned banks feeling comfortable taking on lots of risk with the protection of the government, he said., ms. nabiullina’s integrity has never been questioned, added mr. guriev, who said he had known her for 15 years. “she’s never been suspected of any corruption.”, ms. nabiullina has been a high-ranking official in mr. putin’s regime for two decades. she was his chief economic adviser for little more than a year before she was made chair of the central bank in june 2013, having already served as minister for economic development while mr. putin was prime minister., “she’s well-trusted in the government and by the president,” said sofya donets, an economist at renaissance capital in moscow who worked at the central bank from 2007 to 2019. in recent years, it was quite evident that all kinds of policy questions in the financial sphere were delegated to the central bank, she added., this trust was built up while ms. nabiullina was buttressing russia’s economy against western sanctions, especially from the long reach of american penalties. in 2014, the united states cut off many major russian companies from its capital markets. but these companies had large amounts of foreign currency debt, raising alarms over how they would service their debts., ms. nabiullina set about squeezing as many u.s. dollars from the economy as possible, so that companies and banks would be less vulnerable if washington further restricted access to the country’s use of dollars., she also shifted the bank’s reserves, which grew to be worth more than $600 billion, toward gold, the euro and the chinese renminbi. over her tenure, the share of dollars in the reserves fell to about 11 percent, from more than 40 percent, ms. nabiullina told parliament last month. even after sanctions froze the bank’s overseas reserves, the country has “sufficient” reserves in gold and renminbi, she told lawmakers., other protections against sanctions included an alternative to swift, the global banking messaging system, developed in recent years. and the bank changed the payments infrastructure to process credit card transactions in the country so even the exit of visa and mastercard would have minimal effect., in march, bloomberg news and the wall street journal, citing unidentified sources, reported that ms. nabiullina had tried to resign after the ukraine invasion, and had been rebuffed by mr. putin. the central bank rejected those reports., last month, the canadian government placed her under sanctions for being a “close associate of the russian regime.”, mr. guriev, who has not been in recent contact with ms. nabiullina, said he thought she might be staying in her role because she could convince herself that if she stepped down, inflation would get out of control and ordinary russians would be hurt more severely., “however, i think that she is actually propping up putin’s war economy,” he added. “she is actually doing something that she didn’t sign up for.”, after ms. nabiullina spent nearly a decade building a reputation for subduing inflation and bringing traditional monetary policy to russia, the western financial penalties imposed after the ukraine invasion quickly forced her to abandon her preferred policies. she more than doubled the interest rate, to 20 percent; used capital controls to severely restrict the flow of money out of the country; shut down stock trading on the moscow exchange; and loosened regulations on banks so lending didn’t seize up., these measures stopped the initial panic and helped the ruble rebound, but the capital controls have only been partly lifted., now russia is entering into a steep recession with a closed economy. on april 29, the bank lowered the interest rate to 14 percent, a sign it was shifting from quelling a financial tornado to trying to minimize the prolonged impact of sanctions on households and businesses as inflation speeds up and companies are forced to reinvent their supply chains without imported goods., inflation has climbed steeply, and could reach an annual rate of 23 percent this year, the central bank forecast. the overall economy, it said, could shrink as much as 10 percent., “we are in a zone of enormous uncertainty,” ms. nabiullina said., liz alderman contributed reporting., anton troianovski, president vladimir v. putin has arrived on moscow’s red square for russia’s main victory day parade, ascending to the stands by the lenin mausoleum in front of the kremlin and greeting world war ii veterans seated there. state television showed thousands of soldiers lined up in formation, with the parade set to begin within minutes., anushka patil, the ukrainian counteroffensive that retook territory around kharkiv on saturday likely forced russian troops to redeploy to the region instead of reinforcing their stalled operations elsewhere in ukraine’s east, the institute for the study of war said on sunday., the analysis from the washington-based research group underscored the success of the ukrainian forces — armed with new weapons supplied by the united states and other allies — in their counteroffensive around kharkiv, in the country’s northeast., doubling back to the area around kharkiv would leave the russian military unable to fully concentrate its efforts in the eastern donbas region. russian troops have been struggling to advance there for weeks, despite a concerted push to secure a triumph for president vladimir v. putin for his planned victory day celebrations on monday, which will commemorate the soviet triumph over nazi germany., russia has failed to make any significant territorial gains since seizing popasna on saturday, the analysis said. troops are now expected to regroup in belgorod, about 50 miles north of kharkiv, and focus on preventing the ukrainian counteroffensive from nearing the border with russia, the ukrainian military said., on saturday, ukrainian defenders pushed russian forces back toward the northeast border and away from the kharkiv, ukraine’s second-largest city. ukrainian forces have retaken enough territory along the outskirts of kharkiv over the past week to be in position to unseat russian forces from the region and reclaim total control of the city “in a matter of days,” the i.s.w. reported recently., cora engelbrecht, moscow’s stockpile of precision-guided missiles and bombs have been vastly depleted, the british defense ministry said. the military is relying on munitions that are less accurate and more easily intercepted, resulting in attacks “with little or no regard for civilian casualties,” the report said., the new york times, ben wallace, the british defense minister, will give a speech about the war in ukraine on monday morning. last week, the government announced more than $1.6 billion in additional aid to ukraine., marc santora, the russian army has deployed 19 battalion tactical groups — each with as many as 1,000 troops — to the russian border town of belgorod, the ukrainian military said. the reinforcements will be used to try to slow the ukrainian offensive around kharkiv and to break through ukrainian defensive lines in donetsk, the military said., anushka patil, prime minister justin trudeau reopened the canadian embassy in kyiv during his unannounced visit to ukraine on sunday. the u.s. embassy in the city has not officially reopened, though a team of senior american diplomats returned on sunday for the first time since russia’s invasion., matthew goldstein, the u.s. government was so pleased with its swift seizure of a russian oligarch’s 255-foot yacht on the mediterranean island of majorca last month that it posted a video on youtube of the moment f.b.i. agents and spanish authorities clambered up the gangplank. the $90 million yacht owned by viktor vekselberg, called the tango, was the government’s first big prize in a campaign against billionaires with close ties to the kremlin., the tango is just a sliver of the $1 billion in yachts, planes and artwork — not to mention hundreds of millions in cash — that the united states has identified as belonging to wealthy allies of russia’s president, vladimir v. putin, since the invasion of ukraine. u.s. magistrate judge zia m. faruqui, who approved the seizure, called the pursuit of the yacht by a new justice department team called task force kleptocapture “just the beginning of the reckoning that awaits those who would facilitate putin’s atrocities.”, the reckoning may take a while., seizing assets, whether a yacht or a bank account, is the easy part. to permanently confiscate them, the government must usually navigate a potentially cumbersome process known as civil forfeiture, which requires proving to a judge that the assets were obtained from the proceeds of a crime or through money laundering. only then does the government actually own the assets, and have the power to liquidate them., all that can take years, especially if the former owner is inclined to fight the forfeiture action in court., hoping to speed things up — and quickly get the proceeds from seized assets turned over to the ukrainian government — the white house announced a plan last week that would make it easier for u.s. authorities to go after some oligarch assets through an administrative procedure led by the treasury department., marc santora, as the last civilians were evacuated from bunkers beneath a steel factory in mariupol, russian soldiers were dispatched to change road signs leading into the ruined port city — removing ukrainian and english lettering and replacing it with russian., it was the latest example of moscow attempting to tighten its hold over territories it has seized in southern ukraine, as its forces step up security and intensify their repressive efforts to bring the regions under the kremlin’s control., russian currency has been introduced in some occupied territories, the internet has been rerouted through russian servers and workers are being forced to register and receive work permits from russian proxies installed in local governments. ukrainian cultural institutions have been looted and ukrainian memorials to national heroes have been destroyed, according to ukrainian officials and witness accounts., in advance of monday’s victory day holiday, russia sent extra troops to some occupied areas. ukrainian officials have speculated that moscow may use the holiday to announce some mechanism — whether a sham referendum or direct annexation — to permanently rip these lands from ukraine., “we will integrate with the russian federation as much as possible,” said kirill stremousov, who was installed by russian forces as the head of the kherson region, which russian forces seized in the early weeks of the war. “all citizens in the kherson region will have the right to obtain russian citizenship and russian passports.”, the deputy of the kherson regional council, yury sobolevsky, said on sunday that russians are increasing checkpoints, checking documents and searching private vehicles and public buses with the aim of “clearing the region of people who threaten the occupation regime.”, russia used similar tactics after it backed a rebellion in eastern ukraine and annexed crimea in 2014. russian forces now control the region just north of crimea, along with kherson and much of the neighboring region of zaporizhzhia., for months, however, the failure to capture mariupol stood in the way of the russian objective to firmly connect crimea to occupied territories in eastern ukraine, and russia itself. now, with only ukrainian soldiers holding out in bunkers beneath the steel plant and the rest of the city under russian control, moscow is seeking to use mariupol as a showcase to audiences back home, whose vision of the war is blinkered through the tightly controlled lens of state media., the ukrainian main intelligence directorate reported that russian commanders are removing officers from combat and dispatching them to the city to protect visiting kremlin officials and propagandists., local residents in the city of energodar, in zaporizhzhia, were stripped of their identification documents and told they could collect them on monday at a government office. the goal, according to ukrainian officials, is to gather a large number of ukrainians in one place on the may 9 holiday to create a scene that could be used in russian propaganda., denis pushilin, the leader of a russia-backed breakaway territory in the eastern region of donetsk, visited kherson last week and said that the local leaders assured him the region will “strive to become a subject of russia” and “will resemble something close to crimea.”, but ukrainian officials have vowed to drive the russians from the occupied territories. ukraine’s minister of defense, oleksii reznikov, said that the brutality of the russian forces is driven by anger over the fact that they were not greeted as liberators., “they essentially took revenge and retaliated further against russian-speaking ukrainians who did not meet them with flowers, as they had dreamed they would in the street, in the square,” he said.][russia-ukraine war, ukraine live updates: putin defends war, without signaling escalation, here are the latest developments in the war in ukraine., britain’s defense chief accuses moscow of mirroring the nazis’ behavior by invading a sovereign country., advertisement, protesters in warsaw splash russia’s ambassador with red liquid., jill biden urges president biden to continue supporting ukraine., advertisement, in his own speech, zelensky rebuts putin’s flawed reading of history., an antiwar message was sent to some russian tvs during the parade. a hack is suspected., advertisement, raising suspicions, russia cancels warplane flyovers across the country., russia’s opposition laments putin’s manipulation of the holiday., advertisement, putin defends his ukraine invasion, invoking world war ii, but does not signal an escalation., in schools across europe, russian-speaking children face bullying and harassment., advertisement, ukraine skips the usual celebrations on holiday to mark the end of world war ii., why russia’s may 9 holiday is significant, advertisement, meet the woman steering russia’s war economy., prescribing a tough remedy, cleaning up the banks, building a fortress, a war economy, russian forces are likely to redeploy to kharkiv, an analysis says., advertisement, seizing an oligarch’s assets is one thing. giving them to ukraine is another., russia tightens its control over occupied ukraine., site information navigation]russia-ukraine live updates: putin defends his war - the new york times[][updates, maps, photos, understand the conflict, war crimes trials, explained, give this article, , , ukraine marked the may 9 holiday somberly, skipping the usual wreath-laying ceremonies, concerts and picnics, many of which were canceled under martial law., jill biden, the first lady, said she called president biden and urged him to continue supporting ukraine after she made an unannounced visit to western ukraine on sunday., in the territories they have seized in southern ukraine, russian forces are replacing road signs, routing the internet through russian servers and stepping up security, as moscow intensifies efforts to bring the occupied areas under its control., give this article, , , © 2022 the new york times company, nytco, contact us, accessibility, work with us, advertise, t brand studio, your ad choices, privacy policy, terms of service, terms of sale, site map, canada, international, help, subscriptions]