[advertisement, supported by, most abortions overseas involve pills, and the method is used in about half of legal u.s. abortions. it also seems to be the future of illicit abortion., send any friend a story, as a subscriber, you have 10 gift articles to give each month. anyone can read what you share., by claire cain miller and margot sanger-katz, taking pills to end a pregnancy accounts for a growing share of abortions in the united states, both legal and not. if the supreme court overturns roe v. wade as expected, medication abortion will play a larger role, especially among women who lose access to abortion clinics., it’s a regimen of pills that women can take at home, a method increasingly used around the world., the protocol approved for use in the united states includes two medications. the first one, mifepristone, blocks a hormone called progesterone that is necessary for a pregnancy to continue. the second, misoprostol, brings on uterine contractions., the food and drug administration has approved medication abortion for up to 10 weeks of pregnancy. world health organization guidelines say it can be used up to 12 weeks at home, and after 12 weeks in a medical office., yes on both counts., in u.s. studies, the combination of these pills causes a complete abortion in more than 99 percent of patients, and is as safe as the traditional abortion procedure administered by a doctor in a clinic. a variety of research has found that medication abortion has low rates of adverse events, and a recent lancet study found that patients are generally satisfied with it. growing evidence from overseas suggests that abortion pills are safe even among women who do not have a doctor to advise them., “some people still assume we’re talking about something dangerous or done out of desperation, but increasingly this information is becoming more mainstream,,” said abigail r.a. aiken, an associate professor at the university of texas at austin who leads a research group there on medication abortion., about half of people who get legal abortions in the united states (and three-quarters in europe). during the pandemic, medication abortion became more common because patients wanted to avoid going to clinics in person, and a change in federal law made it easier for them to get prescriptions via telemedicine., it usually comes down to patients’ personal preference, said dr. maria isabel rodriguez, an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at oregon health and sciences university, who has worked on abortion research and policy design. “some people like surgical, because it’s over with faster, they’re able to have anesthesia, and it’s finished in a defined time,” she said. “medication can feel more private, some want it at their own home, some say it feels more natural for them, and some say it feels more possible to process a loss.”, medication abortion is also used by those who live in a place that restricts legal abortion or by those who can’t reach a clinic. the u.s. abortion rate is higher than officially reported by doctors, evidence suggests, because people are ordering pills online. that invisible abortion rate may rise if more states move to ban abortion., doctors with a special registration required by the f.d.a., but it recently lifted rules that required an in-person appointment. that means more providers are offering medication abortions through telemedicine. the doctor and patient meet online, then the doctor sends pills to the patient’s home through the mail. (some brick-and-mortar pharmacies have become certified to fill prescriptions for the pills, but this is not yet common.), new start-ups that specialize in telemedicine abortions, like hey jane and just the pill, have begun offering the service in states that allow it. but 19 states prohibit pills from being prescribed by telemedicine or delivered via mail. in those places, patients still need to see a doctor in person to pick up the pills. other states ban medication abortion after a certain number of weeks., if roe is overturned, about half of states are expected to ban abortion altogether, and medication abortion is expected to become a legal battleground., online pharmacies overseas sell the pills. an organization called aid access offers women in all 50 states advice and prescriptions from european doctors before shipping pills from india. these extralegal channels are becoming more popular as abortion becomes harder to access in some states. after texas enacted a law in september that banned abortion after about six weeks, requests to aid access for abortion pills tripled., the f.d.a. has asked these groups to stop sales of these medications into the united states, saying they circumvent u.s. drug safety protocols. but researchers who have analyzed the pills in laboratories have found that pills ordered using these services are generally authentic., the second of the two medications in the official regimen, misoprostol, can also end a pregnancy when used alone. it is around 80 percent effective on its own, although it sometimes has to be taken more than once. that pill is also used to treat ulcers, and is available over the counter in many countries, including mexico. but the only f.d.a.-approved method in the united states is to use both pills., an evolving landscape. women’s access to abortion continues to be debated around the globe. here’s a look at the state of affairs in some countries:, colombia. the country’s top court decriminalized abortion in 2022, making it the third major latin american nation to allow access to the procedure. the decision paves the way for abortions to become widely available across this historically conservative, catholic country., guatemala. after lawmakers passed a sweeping new bill mandating up to 10 years of jail time for women who obtain abortions, protests erupted. a few days later, in an abrupt reversal that surprised analysts, president alejandro giammattei said he would veto the bill., mexico. in 2021, mexico’s supreme court issued a historic decision that decriminalized abortion. the move set a legal precedent for the nation, but applying it to all of mexico’s states will be a long path, and several challenges remain., poland. the country is one of the few that has moved to restrict abortion in recent years. a near-total ban went into effect in january 2021, fueling discontent among those who believe human freedoms are being eroded under the increasingly autocratic law and justice party., china. the country’s central government said last septemberthat it intended to reduce the prevalence of “medically unnecessary” abortions. in recent years, china has been focusing its efforts toward promoting childbirth and slowing the population’s aging., thailand. the thai parliament voted in 2021 to make abortion legal in the first trimester, while keeping penalties in place for women who undergo it later in their pregnancies. advocates say the measure doesn’t go far enough., argentina. in 2020, the country became the largest nation in latin america to legalize abortion — a landmark vote in a conservative region and a victory for a grass-roots movement that turned years of rallies into political power., no. it is illegal to sell prescription medicine to americans without a prescription from a doctor licensed in the united states. but enforcement of overseas providers has been uncommon, as it is with other medications americans order from abroad. and sales would be hard to stop because the medications generally come in unmarked packages in the mail., “i’m not there, so i don’t have any legal risk,” said dr. rebecca gomperts, the dutch physician who runs aid access, and says she has lawyers advising her, both at home and in the united states. “i know from where i am, i am complying with the law.”, in general, recent state laws do not punish women for obtaining abortions, but have focused enforcement on abortion providers. the exception is older laws in south carolina, oklahoma and nevada. that could change if roe is overturned and if illicit medication abortions become more common., “it is not a codified crime to self-manage abortion” in all but those three states, said farah diaz-tello, senior counsel and legal director for if/when/how, a reproductive rights policy and advocacy group. “but it is not lawful for a person to seek prescription medication without a prescription.”, the first pill, mifepristone, typically has no discernible effect on patients. the second, misoprostol, taken 24 to 48 hours later, causes cramping and bleeding that builds in intensity, dr. rodriguez said., the process lasts about six to eight hours, and is most intense for about one hour. she recommends patients stay home, without other obligations. ibuprofen and a heating pad are also recommended, because the pain can be strong and the bleeding is much heavier than for a period. after the pregnancy has passed, the cramping and clotting stop, though women generally bleed, similar to a period, for about a week., in rare cases, less than 1 percent of the time, a patient has heavier-than-expected bleeding and needs medical care. similarly rarely, the abortion is not complete and needs to be followed up with another dose or a surgical abortion. women who have these complications can be treated by a doctor with experience treating miscarriages; the symptoms and treatment are the same. once a medication abortion is begun, it cannot be reversed., advertisement][medication abortions are increasing: what they are and where women get them, what is medication abortion?, when can it be used?, is it effective, and is it safe?, who uses this method?, who prescribes abortion pills?, what about pills from overseas?, the issue of abortion around the world, are pills from overseas legal?, what is the process like?, site information navigation]medication abortions are increasing: what they are and where women get them - the new york times[send any friend a story, 10 gift articles, an evolving landscape., colombia., guatemala., mexico., poland., china., thailand., argentina.][give this article, , , 69, send any friend a story as a subscriber, you have 10 gift articles to give each month. anyone can read what you share. give this article, , , 69, read in app, , , , , , , , , © 2022 the new york times company, nytco, contact us, accessibility, work with us, advertise, t brand studio, your ad choices, privacy policy, terms of service, terms of sale, site map, canada, international, help, subscriptions]