[help center, imdb uses cookies to identify registered users. a cookie is simply a piece of text that is saved in your browser's configuration to allow our servers to recognize you every time you visit imdb. in order to access your imdb account, you will will need to enable cookies on your browser., if your browser is configured to reject cookies, you can still access and search imdb but you will not be able to use any of the personalized features reserved to registered users. to make sure cookies are enabled, please check your browser configuration (usually under the security or advanced configuration section)., imdb general support][why do i need to enable my cookies on imdb?]imdb | help[][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, what is imdb?, why should i register on imdb?, site preferences, imdb site index, imdb login/registration issues, why do i need to enable my cookies on imdb?, how can i access or delete personal information imdb stores about me?, how do i update my email address?, i never received my registration email. how do i login?, when i login it says there was a problem. how do i login?, my watchlist, ratings, and settings are gone. what happened?, why do i get an error message when i try to update my email?, how do i link or unlink my facebook and imdb accounts?, i don't have access to my email, how can i recover my account?, i used a third party linked account to sign up and no longer have access to the account. how do i access my imdb account?, how can i delete my imdb account?, how do i delete my account when i don't have access to the email address?, sprinklr community access - you're about to leave imdb.com, how to effectively report problems, how to report security issues and vulnerabilities, how to report suspicious emails, why is imdb displaying differently on my browser?, what's your phone number?, how do i link to a specific page on your site?, where does the information on imdb come from?, can i use imdb data in my software?, can i use your data in a book/website/magazine?, can i use a photo from your site for my web site or publication?, what's the difference between an imdb page and user profile?, what is the ‘your activity’ page?, faq for the 'your activity' feature, is my activity page private?, user naming - user id, real name, imdb page, how can i change my user id?, how can i upload an avatar to my ‘your activity’ page?, how do i report an inappropriate avatar?, faq for the ‘recently viewed’ feature, you have so much information! where should i start?, how much does using imdb cost?, what is the difference between imdb and imdbpro?, how do i break into show business?, can you help me contact a celebrity listed on imdb?, can you get rid of the ads on your site?, what is an enhanced page?, how can i personalize my advertising settings?, why do i need to enter a captcha?, boards closure faq, what software are you using to run imdb?, hammer software license, why am i being redirected to imdb?, imdb partners, advertise on imdb, content licensing, press information, need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]