[new data from china is raising fresh concerns about the global economy amid worries over high inflation, rising interest rates and supply chain disruptions., s&p 500, -, %, dow, -, %, nasdaq, -, %, as of, data delayed at least 15 minutes, source: factset, , by william p. davis and coral murphy marcos, may 5, may 6, may 9, 4,050, 4,100, 4,150, 4,200, data delayed at least 15 minutes, source: factset, by: ella koeze, stocks on wall street slid further on monday as new data from china raised fresh concerns about the outlook for the global economy for investors already wary of high inflation, rising interest rates and continuing supply chain disruptions., the s&p 500 fell 1.7 percent in early trading, adding to a five-week stretch of declines that has knocked the index down nearly 14 percent through friday., china’s exports slowed significantly in april, as the country’s lockdowns continued to idle millions of workers. exports of chinese steel, a barometer of global growth, are unlikely to improve much in may, according to analysts at s&p global, a research firm. the retreat on wall street followed sharp declines in global markets. the stoxx europe 600 fell 1.8 percent, while hong kong’s hang seng index slid 3.8 percent. oil prices slumped. brent crude, the global benchmark fell about 2.6 percent to $109.43 a barrel, and west texas intermediate, the u.s. benchmark, was down 2.8 percent, to about $106.65., stocks have been battered for the past several weeks as investors contend with higher interest rates, which the federal reserve began to raise from near zero in march, and further disruptions to supply chain. the s&p 500 is coming off its fifth consecutive weekly decline, its longest streak of losses since june 2011. on friday, the latest data on hiring in the united states set off concerns over how the fed will move forward with tightening monetary policy. wall street was rocky all week, with indexes swinging between momentous gains and losses and government bond yields reaching levels above 3 percent., bond yields, a proxy for investor expectations about interest rates, were little changed on monday. the yield on 10-year treasury notes remained at 3.1 percent., number of days per year the s&p 500 closed up or down 2.5 percent or more., note: data for 2022 shows trading days through may 5., source: new york times analysis, by the new york times, in 2021, there was seemingly no bad news that could stop the u.s. stock market, with the s&p 500 gaining 26.9 percent. what’s more, trading was remarkably placid given the uncertainty around the coronavirus., but the volatility and losses that have gone hand in hand with recessions are back., in 2021, the index had a daily gain or loss of more than 2.5 percent just once, on jan. 27, as meme stocks like gamestop and amc entertainment spiked in a speculative frenzy and the federal reserve said a resurgent coronavirus was weighing on the economic recovery., already this year there have been seven days with gains or losses of at least 2.5 percent — about one in every 12 trading days. all of those big daily changes have been in march, april and may., strings of big gains and losses are more typical of recessions and the periods that follow them. before the pandemic wreaked havoc on the stock market in 2020, the last string of big changes was in 2007-11, during the financial crisis and the recovery from it. before that, the dot-com boom and bust, and the sept. 11 attacks, brought volatility., outside such major events, it’s more common to have just a few big changes each year. there have even been many years with no such big moves: 10 in the past 30 years., after april proved to be one of wall street’s worst months in recent years, may has not provided a much more optimistic view on how investors are looking at the economy., the federal reserve raised interest rates half a percentage point on wednesday and markets initially rallied, with a gain of 3 percent. stocks then plunged the next day. there are some bright spots, however., our investing and markets columnist jeff sommer can help you through a confusing time. here are some points to consider., the federal reserve’s intentions in cooling inflation are clear: the fed is willing to increase unemployment in the united states if that is what’s required to get the job done. that may be hard for financial markets to digest, after years of extraordinarily loose monetary policy., it has been a wonderful stretch for the dollar. the u.s. dollar index, which tracks the dollar against six other important currencies, is hovering at levels it hadn’t reached in 20 years. global demand has risen for relatively safe and increasingly higher-yielding assets like treasurys., though the market has been shaken by the pandemic, supply chain struggles, the war in ukraine and more, there is a case for cautious optimism. as strange as it sounds, it may help to embrace misery: further declines will surely come, but it will take new, unexpected shocks to unmoor stocks, bonds and commodities in a fundamental way., the bond market declines are “really, truly, historically bad,” our columnist writes. it may be painful to hold bonds now, but there are good reasons to do so, especially treasurys. here’s what else to know about bonds., do you have any questions that our columnist hasn’t yet answered? ask them here., the s&p 500 has now registered five consecutive weekly declines, its longest streak of losses since june 2011. stocks rallied earlier last week, before suffering their largest single-day drop since the start of the pandemic on thursday. futures point to another drop in u.s. stocks monday morning., the financial markets are coming to grips with a stunning policy change by the federal reserve, writes the times columnist jeff sommer. markets have become so accustomed to the fed’s loose monetary policy of the past two decades that investors don’t know how to react now that the central bank is pulling back and trying to slow the economy. “this is a very big change, and the markets are having trouble processing it,” said robert dent, senior u.s. economist for nomura securities., adding to the uncertainty are continued lockdowns in china, surging inflation, supply constraints and a spike in oil prices. that has complicated the outlook for the global economy, though some wall street forecasters remain optimistic. in a research note published yesterday, goldman sachs said that it forecast a recovery in major equity indexes. “the tightening in u.s. financial conditions has somewhat rebalanced the risks to the fed’s mandate and potentially set the stage for a stabilization in the financial market environment,” the note said., tech stocks and crypto prices are falling again. bitcoin this morning hit its lowest level since july 2021. tech companies, both global powerhouses and start-ups, are also feeling the pain. share prices for netflix, meta and peloton are all down substantially this year. some strategists are saying prices could continue to fall until they land back where they were before the pandemic. for tech stocks, that would be a further 25 percent drop. for crypto, it could be a plunge of more than 60 percent., with some tech companies freezing hiring or laying off employees, investors are split. some see a temporary slowdown, while others say it is a sign of a deeper slump to come, the wall street journal reports. elon musk, on the other hand, has told investors that twitter could quintuple its revenue by 2028., by emma bubola and eduardo medina, leaders of the group of 7 nations pledged during a virtual meeting on sunday with president volodymyr zelensky to ban or phase out russian oil, aiming to still further erode russia’s economic standing as it pursues its invasion of ukraine., the group did not provide details but said in a statement that the plans would be enforced in a “timely and orderly fashion, and in ways that provide time for the world to secure alternative supplies.”, oil bans are a two-edged sword. oil is a top export for russia, and moscow would almost certainly sustain a big economic blow should it be banned, but parts of europe are heavily dependent on its oil and thus are also vulnerable., the united states, which imported a relatively small amount of energy resources from russia, has already banned the import of russian oil and gas., the european union, which gets about a quarter of its crude oil imports from russia, has also announced plans for phasing out russian oil, but is still in talks to formalize the decision. the bloc is too dependent on russian gas to consider banning it in the short term, but has laid out plans to become progressively independent from it., the g7 also said it would take steps to stop the provision of key services on which russia depends and to toughen sanctions against the financial elites who support president vladimir v. putin, as well as their family members., the white house also announced new sanctions on sunday against three russian state television outlets and said it would prohibit americans from providing accounting or consulting services to anyone in russia., the group of 7, which includes some of the world’s biggest economies, said that member nations — canada, france, germany, italy, japan, the united kingdom and the united states — would also continue to provide billions of dollars in military aid and intelligence to ukraine, which has helped the country thwart russian forces., during the meeting sunday, mr. zelensky pleaded ukraine’s case with the world leaders, saying his ultimate goal was to force the full withdrawal of russia’s army., the g7, in its statement, said member nations had assured mr. zelensky of their “continued readiness to undertake further commitments to help ukraine secure its free and democratic future.”, the call took place on the day the g7 leaders commemorate the end of the second world war and as russia prepared for its annual celebration of the soviet victory over nazi germany in 1945., “we remain united in our resolve that president putin must not win his war against ukraine,” the g7 statement said. “we owe it to the memory of all those who fought for freedom in the second world war.”, the actions of mr. putin, it said, “bring shame on russia and the historic sacrifices of its people.”, ahead of the call, the united kingdom said it would offer an additional 1.3 billion pounds (about 1.6 billion dollars) in aid and military support to ukraine. the new funding almost doubles the existing 1.5 billion pounds in support., by alexandra stevenson, when china tightened its grip over hong kong with a national security law in 2020, many feared it would imperil the city’s status as asia’s financial capital. the stock market initially plunged. a few companies left. the independence of the courts was questioned., the broader business community kept quiet, worried about losing out on the opportunities to make money in china. but after two years of strict coronavirus policies that have left hong kong mostly isolated from the world, international businesses have found their voice., business leaders now say they are struggling to hire and keep executives in hong kong. global executives have been unable to visit regional staff members in hong kong. (jamie dimon, the chief executive of jpmorgan chase, was the only head of a wall street bank to be publicly granted an exemption.) a growing number of firms have relocated, while others have temporarily moved top executives to cities like singapore., as global money has flowed out of the city, chinese money is increasingly filling the void. some of the city’s most iconic real estate that was once occupied by international companies has been snapped up by chinese investors., what began as a steady migration of people out of the city two years ago turned into a larger exodus this year. the prospect of a citywide lockdown, the closing of schools and tough quarantine measures that included separating young children from their parents drove many families to leave., “this was the city of opportunity; everyone wanted to come here,” said eugenia bae, a headhunter for international banks and financial firms. “now it is no longer a popular city anymore. it’s a tough time.”, officials this month began to ease social distancing measures, and nonresidents are now allowed to visit the city for the first time in two years. john lee, set to be hong kong’s next chief executive, is largely unknown to the business community but has promised to restore the city’s status as a thriving global hub. he has also said he would prioritize strengthening the city’s financial ties with mainland china., “we have the hope and the expectation that the next leadership will lead hong kong out of the pandemic and back on track,” said frederik gollob, chairman of the european chamber of commerce.][daily business briefing, stock sell-off continues on new concerns about global economy., stock sell-off continues on new concerns about global economy., s&p 500, stock market volatility is picking up again., how to handle the market chaos., advertisement, what’s driving the wild swings in the markets?, g7 nations pledge to ban or phase out russian oil., advertisement, ‘it’s a tough time’: reassessing hong kong’s status as a financial capital., site information navigation]latest stocks, inflation and business news: live updates - the new york times[][stock sell-off continues on new concerns about global economy. new data from china is raising fresh concerns about the global economy amid worries over high inflation, rising interest rates and supply chain disruptions., how to handle the market chaos., what’s driving the wild swings in the markets?, g7 nations pledge to ban or phase out russian oil., ‘it’s a tough time’: reassessing hong kong’s status as a financial capital., the federal reserve’s intentions in cooling inflation are clear: the fed is willing to increase unemployment in the united states if that is what’s required to get the job done. that may be hard for financial markets to digest, after years of extraordinarily loose monetary policy., it has been a wonderful stretch for the dollar. the u.s. dollar index, which tracks the dollar against six other important currencies, is hovering at levels it hadn’t reached in 20 years. global demand has risen for relatively safe and increasingly higher-yielding assets like treasurys., though the market has been shaken by the pandemic, supply chain struggles, the war in ukraine and more, there is a case for cautious optimism. as strange as it sounds, it may help to embrace misery: further declines will surely come, but it will take new, unexpected shocks to unmoor stocks, bonds and commodities in a fundamental way., the bond market declines are “really, truly, historically bad,” our columnist writes. it may be painful to hold bonds now, but there are good reasons to do so, especially treasurys. here’s what else to know about bonds., give this article, , , © 2022 the new york times company, nytco, contact us, accessibility, work with us, advertise, t brand studio, your ad choices, privacy policy, terms of service, terms of sale, site map, canada, international, help, subscriptions]