[advertisement, the new york timesupdated may 9, 2022, this chart shows for each age group the number of people per 100,000 that were newly admitted to a hospital with covid-19 each day, according to data from the u.s. department of health and human services. dips and spikes could be due to inconsistent reporting by hospitals., see more details ›, see more details ›, this table is sorted by places with the most cases per 100,000 residents in the last seven days. statewide data often updates more frequently than county-level data, and may not equal the sum of county-level figures. charts show change in daily averages and are each on their own scale. the state releases new data once a week. it released new data daily until july 2021 and on all weekdays until april 2022., in data for utah, the times primarily relies on reports from the state, as well as health districts or county governments that often report ahead of the state. the state releases new data once a week. it released new data daily until july 2021 and on all weekdays until april 2022. the state reports cases and deaths based on a person’s permanent or usual residence., the times has identified reporting anomalies or methodology changes in the data., the tallies on this page include deaths identified by public health officials as probable coronavirus patients, as well as cases identified through antigen testing., confirmed cases and deaths, which are widely considered to be an undercount of the true toll, are counts of individuals whose coronavirus infections were confirmed by a molecular laboratory test. probable cases and deaths count individuals who meet criteria for other types of testing, symptoms and exposure, as developed by national and local governments., governments often revise data or report a single-day large increase in cases or deaths from unspecified days without historical revisions, which can cause an irregular pattern in the daily reported figures. the times is excluding these anomalies from seven-day averages when possible. for agencies that do not report data every day, variation in the schedule on which cases or deaths are reported, such as around holidays, can also cause an irregular pattern in averages. the times uses an adjustment method to vary the number of days included in an average to remove these irregularities., by jordan allen, sarah almukhtar, aliza aufrichtig, anne barnard, matthew bloch, sarah cahalan, weiyi cai, julia calderone, keith collins, matthew conlen, lindsey cook, gabriel gianordoli, amy harmon, rich harris, adeel hassan, jon huang, danya issawi, danielle ivory, k.k. rebecca lai, alex lemonides, eleanor lutz, allison mccann, richard a. oppel jr., jugal k. patel, alison saldanha, kirk semple, shelly seroussi, julie walton shaver, amy schoenfeld walker, anjali singhvi, charlie smart, mitch smith, albert sun, rumsey taylor, lisa waananen jones, derek watkins, timothy williams, jin wu and karen yourish.   ·   reporting was contributed by jeff arnold, ian austen, mike baker, brillian bao, ellen barry, shashank bengali, samone blair, nicholas bogel-burroughs, aurelien breeden, elisha brown, emma bubola, maddie burakoff, alyssa burr, christopher calabrese, julia carmel, zak cassel, robert chiarito, izzy colón, matt craig, yves de jesus, brendon derr, brandon dupré, melissa eddy, john eligon, timmy facciola, bianca fortis, jake frankenfield, matt furber, robert gebeloff, thomas gibbons-neff, matthew goldstein, grace gorenflo, rebecca griesbach, benjamin guggenheim, barbara harvey, lauryn higgins, josh holder, jake holland, anna joyce, john keefe, ann hinga klein, jacob lagesse, alex lim, alex matthews, patricia mazzei, jesse mckinley, miles mckinley, k.b. mensah, sarah mervosh, jacob meschke, lauren messman, andrea michelson, jaylynn moffat-mowatt, steven moity, paul moon, derek m. norman, anahad o’connor, ashlyn o’hara, azi paybarah, elian peltier, richard pérez-peña, sean plambeck, laney pope, elisabetta povoledo, cierra s. queen, savannah redl, scott reinhard, chloe reynolds, thomas rivas, frances robles, natasha rodriguez, jess ruderman, kai schultz, alex schwartz, emily schwing, libby seline, rachel sherman, sarena snider, brandon thorp, alex traub, maura turcotte, tracey tully, jeremy white, kristine white, bonnie g. wong, tiffany wong, sameer yasir and john yoon.   ·   data acquisition and additional work contributed by will houp, andrew chavez, michael strickland, tiff fehr, miles watkins, josh williams, nina pavlich, carmen cincotti, ben smithgall, andrew fischer, rachel shorey, blacki migliozzi, alastair coote, jaymin patel, john-michael murphy, isaac white, steven speicher, hugh mandeville, robin berjon, thu trinh, carolyn price, james g. robinson, phil wells, yanxing yang, michael beswetherick, michael robles, nikhil baradwaj, ariana giorgi, bella virgilio, dylan momplaisir, avery dews, bea malsky, ilana marcus and jason kao., , in data for utah, the times primarily relies on reports from the state, as well as health districts or county governments that often report ahead of the state. the state releases new data once a week. it released new data daily until july 2021 and on all weekdays until april 2022. the state reports cases and deaths based on a person’s permanent or usual residence., the times has identified reporting anomalies or methodology changes in the data., the tallies on this page include deaths identified by public health officials as probable coronavirus patients, as well as cases identified through antigen testing., confirmed cases and deaths, which are widely considered to be an undercount of the true toll, are counts of individuals whose coronavirus infections were confirmed by a molecular laboratory test. probable cases and deaths count individuals who meet criteria for other types of testing, symptoms and exposure, as developed by national and local governments., governments often revise data or report a single-day large increase in cases or deaths from unspecified days without historical revisions, which can cause an irregular pattern in the daily reported figures. the times is excluding these anomalies from seven-day averages when possible. for agencies that do not report data every day, variation in the schedule on which cases or deaths are reported, such as around holidays, can also cause an irregular pattern in averages. the times uses an adjustment method to vary the number of days included in an average to remove these irregularities.][the coronavirus pandemic, utah coronavirus map and case count, tracking coronavirus in utah: latest map and case count, new reported cases, tests, hospitalized, deaths, daily new hospital admissions by age in utah, hot spots, vaccinations, latest trends, vaccinations, latest trends, reported cases, deaths and other trends by county, how trends have changed in utah, average cases per capita in utah, 2020, 2021, 2022, about the data, tracking the coronavirus, united states, latest maps and data, vaccinations, your places, hospitals near you, world, latest maps and data, global vaccinations, health, vaccines, treatments, previous projects, mask mandates, your county’s risk, nursing homes, colleges and universities, deaths above normal, deaths above normal, early coronavirus outbreaks, countries, states, territories and cities, data, credits, about the data]utah coronavirus map and case count - the new york times[461 cases per day, cases have increased by 169 percent, deaths have increased by 225 percent, 1 in 3, 935,708 reported cases, 1 in 674, 4,760 deaths, 461 cases per day, cases have increased by 169 percent, deaths have increased by 225 percent, 1 in 3, 935,708 reported cases, 1 in 674, 4,760 deaths, cases, hospitalized, deaths, fully, vaccinated, jan. 17, 2022:, dec. 31, 2021:, dec. 24, 2021:, nov. 25, 2021:, nov. 11, 2021:, oct. 11, 2021:, sept. 6, 2021:, july 23, 2021:, jan. 2, 2021:, nov. 27, 2020:, confirmed cases and deaths, probable cases and deaths, jan. 17, 2022:, dec. 31, 2021:, dec. 24, 2021:, nov. 25, 2021:, nov. 11, 2021:, oct. 11, 2021:, sept. 6, 2021:, july 23, 2021:, jan. 2, 2021:, nov. 27, 2020:, confirmed cases and deaths, probable cases and deaths][give this article, , , livecovid-19 updates, map and cases, should you be wearing a mask?, timeline of a ba.2 infection, , latest maps and data, vaccinations by state, your places, hospitals, alabama, alaska, arizona, arkansas, california, colorado, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, guam, hawaii, idaho, illinois, indiana, iowa, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, mississippi, missouri, montana, nebraska, nevada, new hampshire, new jersey, new mexico, new york, north carolina, north dakota, northern mariana islands, ohio, oklahoma, oregon, pennsylvania, puerto rico, rhode island, south carolina, south dakota, tennessee, texas, u.s. virgin islands, utah, vermont, virginia, washington, washington, d.c., west virginia, wisconsin, wyoming, latest maps and data, vaccinations by country, australia, brazil, canada, china, france, germany, india, italy, japan, mexico, south africa, spain, united kingdom, vaccine development, coronavirus variants, treatments, answers to your covid-19 questions, how the covid-19 vaccines work, symptoms of covid-19, what happens in an infection, how masks work, under 18, 18-29, 30-49, 50-59, 60-69, 70+, all ages, an average of 461 cases per day were reported in utah in the last week. cases have increased by 169 percent from the average two weeks ago. deaths have increased by 225 percent., since the beginning of the pandemic, at least 1 in 3 residents have been infected, a total of 935,708 reported cases. at least 1 in 674 residents have died from the coronavirus, a total of 4,760 deaths., january 2022 was the month with the highest average cases, while december 2020 was the month with the highest average deaths in utah., an average of 461 cases per day were reported in utah in the last week. cases have increased by 169 percent from the average two weeks ago. deaths have increased by 225 percent., since the beginning of the pandemic, at least 1 in 3 residents have been infected, a total of 935,708 reported cases. at least 1 in 674 residents have died from the coronavirus, a total of 4,760 deaths., january 2022 was the month with the highest average cases, while december 2020 was the month with the highest average deaths in utah., jan. 17, 2022: utah did not announce new cases and deaths for the martin luther king jr. day holiday., dec. 31, 2021: utah did not announce new cases and deaths for the new year's holiday., dec. 24, 2021: utah did not announce new cases and deaths for the christmas holiday., nov. 25, 2021: utah did not announce new cases and deaths for the thanksgiving holiday., nov. 11, 2021: utah did not announce new data because of the veterans day holiday., oct. 11, 2021: utah did not release new data because of the holiday., sept. 6, 2021: the daily count could be artificially low because many jurisdictions did not announce new data on labor day., july 23, 2021: utah did not release data because of pioneer day, a state holiday., jan. 2, 2021: utah reported data for two days after reporting no data on new year's day., nov. 27, 2020: utah reported data for nov. 26 and nov. 27 after reporting no data on thanksgiving., latest maps and data cases and deaths for every county, vaccinations how many have been vaccinated, and who’s eligible, your places build your own dashboard to track cases, hospitals near you how many i.c.u. beds are occupied, latest maps and data cases and deaths for every country, global vaccinations how many have been vaccinated, by country, vaccines track their development, treatments rated by effectiveness and safety, mask mandates see state mask guidance for schools and indoors, your county’s risk see guidance for your local area, nursing homes the hardest-hit states and facilities, colleges and universities cases at more than 1,800 schools, deaths above normal the true toll of the pandemic in the u.s., deaths above normal the true toll of coronavirus around the world, early coronavirus outbreaks cases in nursing homes, prisons and other places, australia, brazil, canada, china, france, germany, india, italy, japan, mexico, south africa, spain, united kingdom, united states, alabama, alaska, arizona, arkansas, california, colorado, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, guam, hawaii, idaho, illinois, indiana, iowa, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, mississippi, missouri, montana, nebraska, nevada, new hampshire, new jersey, new mexico, new york, north carolina, north dakota, northern mariana islands, ohio, oklahoma, oregon, pennsylvania, puerto rico, rhode island, south carolina, south dakota, tennessee, texas, u.s. virgin islands, utah, vermont, virginia, washington, washington, d.c., west virginia, wisconsin, wyoming, frequently asked questions about the covid data, access the open source covid data, jan. 17, 2022: utah did not announce new cases and deaths for the martin luther king jr. day holiday., dec. 31, 2021: utah did not announce new cases and deaths for the new year's holiday., dec. 24, 2021: utah did not announce new cases and deaths for the christmas holiday., nov. 25, 2021: utah did not announce new cases and deaths for the thanksgiving holiday., nov. 11, 2021: utah did not announce new data because of the veterans day holiday., oct. 11, 2021: utah did not release new data because of the holiday., sept. 6, 2021: the daily count could be artificially low because many jurisdictions did not announce new data on labor day., july 23, 2021: utah did not release data because of pioneer day, a state holiday., jan. 2, 2021: utah reported data for two days after reporting no data on new year's day., nov. 27, 2020: utah reported data for nov. 26 and nov. 27 after reporting no data on thanksgiving.]