[help center, your watchlist is a great place to track the movie and tv shows you want to watch., you can sort your watchlist by the imdb rating, popularity score and arrange your movies in the order you want to see them., you can also discover new movies using our growing collection of user authored lists and our powerful advanced search. , imdb top movies and imdb top tv are great lists to jumpstart your watchlist., , you can add titles to your watchlist by selecting the "+" button on the title page., to add multiple titles from another user's list, select the compact view icon on the far right in the "view" field. the compact view will enable you to select all or particular titles from the list to copy to your watchlist. once you've selected the titles, select "copy from this list" from the pop up menu from the 3 vertical dots., , you can also add titles directly to your watchlist from the known for titles on each actor's page. this can be done using either the desktop or app version of imdb., , you can remove an item from your watchlist by clicking the green check mark on the title poster. once removed the title will show with the gray "+" button. if you've changed your mind and want to re-add it, just click the "+" button again., before removing a title from your watchlist, we recommend clicking the star to give the title a 1-10 star rating (worst - best)., rating a movie will save it to your your ratings and helps you recommend titles and start creating your lists on imdb., , to change the order in which the tv shows and movies are displayed in your watchlist, click on the edit list link at the top right hand corner of your list., type in the number for where to order the title in your watchlist and click "save reordered list" at the bottom of the page, watchlists are automatically created with every imdb account and can't be deleted., you can remove a title from your watchlist, by clicking the green check mark next to it. , , by default, only your watchlist is set to private. if you'd like to share your watchlist, take the following steps:, your change will be automatically saved and your watchlist can now be shared., to navigate to your watchlist, select "watchlist" from the navigation bar while logged into your imdb account from a desktop or mobile browser, or select "your watchlist" from the account menu in the upper-right corner., you can also easily navigate to your watchlist on the "your activity" page. in the imdb app, select the account icon in the upper-right corner to find your watchlist., no, your imdb and prime video watchlists are separate from one another., imdb general support][watchlist faq]imdb | help["+", +, +, save reordered list, watchlist, your watchlist, your activity][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, lists faq, watchlist faq, how do i submit my rating on imdb?, ratings faq, how can i see all my ratings?, how do i share my review?, how do i sort my ratings by the title type?, weighted average ratings, the vote average for film "x" should be y! why are you displaying another rating?, what’s the difference between the moviemeter and popularity ranking on a title?, how do i change or delete my rating on a title?, how do i change the privacy setting for my ratings?, why do the user ratings on many movies and tv shows seem to decrease over time?, how can i view the breakdown of ratings?, who are the top 1000 voters? how do i know if i'm one of them?, what does it mean if i found a user review helpful or not?, how do i create a link in one of my descriptions?, can i use your ratings on my website?, visit your watchlist, click "edit" in the right hand corner, click "settings" and select to make this list public, need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]