[help center, movies that changed my life is imdb's weekly podcast where host ian de borja talks to actors, filmmakers, and more to learn about the movies that inspired them to create their greatest work., , , , listen now on apple podcasts, spotify, or wherever you listen to podcasts! available locations:, season 2 is complete, with no new episodes planned at the moment. there may be occasional additional episodes around major releases or cultural events., you can listen to season 1 of movies that changed my life by typing “movies that changed my life” in the search bar on either imdb.com or the imdb app. scroll down to the videos section to listen to full episodes. full episodes from season 2 are not available on imdb.com and/or the app but can be enjoyed wherever you listen to podcasts!, you are encouraged to rate and review movies that changed my life on apple podcasts here: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/movies-that-changed-my-life/id1510831562, we don't release a full schedule of guests prior to episodes launching., follow the directions for listening to a full episode on imdb.com and the app. once you arrive at a full episode, tap the watchlist button on the top right of the page to add to your watchlist. visit the watchlist help page for more details on watchlists., imdb general support][movies that changed my life (an imdb podcast)]imdb | help[][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, how can i watch a movie or tv show?, how can i watch imdb original videos?, imdb what to watch app, movies that changed my life (an imdb podcast), that scene with dan patrick (an imdb podcast), videos faq, why is there an ad shown before every trailer?, what to watch faq, how does "compared to you" feature work?, when i search for a person, there is a title next to their name. how is that title chosen?, known for title selection, using the advanced search feature, search suggestions faq, what is the 'more like this' section?, collaborations and overlaps search, how can i find adult titles on imdb?, box office faq, showtimes & ticket experience faq, who do i contact if there is a movie or theatre missing from the showtimes list?, i'm looking for a film, but can't remember the title. can you help me?, can i view in development titles on imdb?, why aren't the stars of a film credited first?, how do you decide if a title is a film, a tv movie or a miniseries?, why am i seeing titles in a different language than before?, in the connections section, what does 'references' mean?, why is the same title listed twice on imdb?, why is the usa running time sometimes different from the running time for another country?, what are spoilers?, some films have '(v)' or '(vg)' after the title. what does that mean?, how do i change the order credits are displayed on an imdb page?, why was a well known actor not listed in the credits?, what does uncredited mean?, what do the roman numerals, like (i) and (ii), after a person's name mean?, what is the difference between "screenplay" and "written by" credits?, what do codes like [se] or [hr] following a production company or distributor mean?, how do i find out if a dvd has subtitles in another language?, i live in the us. can i order a video from amazon uk?, newsdesk faq, amazon music, apple podcasts, spotify, google podcasts, stitcher, tune in, simplecast, need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]