[help center, the imdb what to watch app is imdb’s latest innovation to help customers discover the next great title to watch., , , , , the imdb what to watch app helps customers to discover individually or as a group (family or friends) the next great movie or tv series via quick, fun mini-games., we help to answer the question “what should i watch tonight?” on your fire tv. with streaming and watching choices becoming more complex by the day, imdb provides fans a new experience that makes it easy to discover new shows and movies, get instant recommendations, and find the ways to watch anything., for more details, see: www.imdb.com/tv, look for the free app in the fire tv app store, or use your fire tv remote to ask alexa. just say "alexa, find the imdb what to watch app.", the imdb what to watch app is currently only available on fire tv devices running fos6 and fos7 and on fire tv stick with voice remote (2nd generation) in the united states., while we’re launching on fire tv and in the us for now, we will expand to new devices and regions in the future., to find the app on your fire tv, please take the following steps:, , you can use the app without an imdb account, but signing in will improve your experience. you can easily sign in or create a new account right in the app. once signed in your ratings and watch activity will be synced across imdb.com, our mobile apps and the what to watch app to help you complete challenges. we will also send you occasional updates on new features and games., the picks we share are powered by the world’s most popular and authoritative source for entertainment information, imdb. you’ll have access to trailers, ratings, run times and parents guide info from imdb.com (http://imdb.com/). some picks are determined by what you select during gameplay, while others are selected by our team based on what’s trending, related to films in theaters, and what time of year it is. our goal is to help you find new-to-you content as well as hidden gems you may have overlooked, and to get more value out of your streaming services., we are launching with three games, with more to come., , while amazon.com settings will not be applied within the app, you can easily access parents guide information in the picks gallery, alongside content information like running time and rating. using trusted imdb data, we flag sensitive content so you can make an informed watch decision. you may find picks and recommendations that do not fall within your parental control settings. however if you have parental controls set on your fire tv device, restricted titles will not be playable., this is not supported at this time. in the meantime, use watchlists on imdb.com or our mobile apps to keep track of what you want to see next., our app is designed to deliver the perfect pick based on what you’re in the mood for in the moment, not what an algorithm thinks you want to watch. certain games incorporate data from the imdb universe to share what’s trending and what imdb fans have rated highly, while others rely on your responses to help guide the way. leave it up to chance or select from our curated lists, it’s totally up to you., the picks we recommend are based on your game inputs and imdb data, not your past viewing behavior, but you can update your settings to prioritize content that is available on the streaming services you currently subscribe to. other picks shown may require an addition subscription or fee., imdb does not capture user data from the what to watch app besides your star ratings; the picks recommended are based solely on your game inputs and imdb data. to track and rate what you watch, you will need to create or sign into an imdb account, which are saved to your imdb account. for more details, see: ratings faq. for details about what information imdb stores about you, please see our privacy policy., we would love to hear from you! visit our imdb community forums to share game ideas, bug discoveries, or what you’re loving about what to watch., imdb general support][imdb what to watch app, frequently asked questions]imdb | help[][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, how can i watch a movie or tv show?, how can i watch imdb original videos?, imdb what to watch app, movies that changed my life (an imdb podcast), that scene with dan patrick (an imdb podcast), videos faq, why is there an ad shown before every trailer?, what to watch faq, how does "compared to you" feature work?, when i search for a person, there is a title next to their name. how is that title chosen?, known for title selection, using the advanced search feature, search suggestions faq, what is the 'more like this' section?, collaborations and overlaps search, how can i find adult titles on imdb?, box office faq, showtimes & ticket experience faq, who do i contact if there is a movie or theatre missing from the showtimes list?, i'm looking for a film, but can't remember the title. can you help me?, can i view in development titles on imdb?, why aren't the stars of a film credited first?, how do you decide if a title is a film, a tv movie or a miniseries?, why am i seeing titles in a different language than before?, in the connections section, what does 'references' mean?, why is the same title listed twice on imdb?, why is the usa running time sometimes different from the running time for another country?, what are spoilers?, some films have '(v)' or '(vg)' after the title. what does that mean?, how do i change the order credits are displayed on an imdb page?, why was a well known actor not listed in the credits?, what does uncredited mean?, what do the roman numerals, like (i) and (ii), after a person's name mean?, what is the difference between "screenplay" and "written by" credits?, what do codes like [se] or [hr] following a production company or distributor mean?, how do i find out if a dvd has subtitles in another language?, i live in the us. can i order a video from amazon uk?, newsdesk faq, first, complete your fire tv device setup, on the fire tv home screen, select "find" tab from the main navigation, select the "search" tile in the "find" tab, type in "imdb what to watch" using your remote and onscreen keyboard, select the "imdb what to watch" app tile in the search results, click on the "get" button on the app detail page, once the app is downloaded, select "open" to launch the "imdb what to watch" app, this or that - feeling fickle? answer questions and we'll find something to suit your mood, whether that's an epic romance, a supernatural horror or something in between., quick draw - when you just want to cut to the chase, shuffle through hundreds of options to get a trio of solid picks in seconds., watch challenge - delve into the genres you love, or find something new with curated lists, updated every month. watch, rate, and collect stamps as you complete mini-challenges along the way., time machine - (coming soon) use this portal to the past to visit any time in history or relive a night at the movies in your favorite decade., build-a-cast - (coming soon) collaborate to create a dream cast. swipe to assemble the actors you'd all like to watch tonight., need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]