[help center, through our apps (ios and android), imdb offers users the option of receiving push notifications with updates on a number of topics. get the newest trailers, updates on movie showtimes, learn about imdb-exclusive content and learn useful tips and tricks for getting the most out of the app., on ios, users must opt-into receive notifications on any of the topics they’re interested in; for android, users are automatically opted-in based on their device preferences., you can access the "notifications" page in one of two ways:, 1. from the home screen, scroll along the tabs (movies, tv, celebs, awards & events) and select "notifications", , 2. from the user homepage, tap the three dots next to your name and select "notifications" from the menu options, , from here, you can click "update notification settings" and manage which topics you're subscribed to., please note, if you have updated the above settings within the app and are still not receiving notifications (or still receiving unwanted notifications), we recommend checking your device's notification settings, especially those pertaining to the imdb app. some android devices have an "always on" default notification setting. to adjust these settings you will need to leave the imdb app and access the internal device settings, typically represented by a gear icon., you can access the "notifications" page in one of two ways:, 1. select the "you" tab in the lower right corner, then scroll to the bottom of the page and select "notifications",      , 2. from the same tab, select the gear icon in the upper-right corner, then select "notifications", from here, you can manage which topics you're subscribed to., please note, if you have updated the above settings within the app and are still not receiving notifications (or still receiving unwanted notifications), we recommend checking your device's notification settings, especially those pertaining to the imdb app. you will need to leave the imdb app and access the internal device settings in the ios app called "settings", represented by a gear icon., imdb general support][imdb app notifications, android notifications, ios notifications]imdb | help[][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, android app faq, ios app faq, imdb app notifications, mobile site faq, how do i reset my password on the mobile site?, imdb app general troubleshooting, need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]