[][sustainability, recent publications, related content, work with us]sustainability | research areas - amazon science[related:][research areas automated reasoning cloud and systems computer vision conversational ai / natural-language processing economics information and knowledge management machine learning operations research and optimization quantum technologies robotics search and information retrieval security, privacy, and abuse prevention sustainability automated reasoning cloud and systems computer vision conversational ai / natural-language processing economics information and knowledge management machine learning operations research and optimization quantum technologies robotics search and information retrieval security, privacy, and abuse prevention sustainability, automated reasoning, cloud and systems, computer vision, conversational ai / natural-language processing, economics, information and knowledge management, machine learning, operations research and optimization, quantum technologies, robotics, search and information retrieval, security, privacy, and abuse prevention, sustainability, automated reasoning, cloud and systems, computer vision, conversational ai / natural-language processing, economics, information and knowledge management, machine learning, operations research and optimization, quantum technologies, robotics, search and information retrieval, security, privacy, and abuse prevention, sustainability, blog, news and features awards and recognitions awards and recognitions, awards and recognitions, awards and recognitions, publications, conferences, collaborations academics at amazon alexa prize amazon research awards academics at amazon alexa prize amazon research awards, academics at amazon, alexa prize, amazon research awards, academics at amazon, alexa prize, amazon research awards, careers internships working at amazon internships working at amazon, internships, working at amazon, internships, working at amazon, twitter, instagram, youtube, facebook, linkedin, research areas automated reasoning cloud and systems computer vision conversational ai / natural-language processing economics information and knowledge management machine learning operations research and optimization quantum technologies robotics search and information retrieval security, privacy, and abuse prevention sustainability automated reasoning cloud and systems computer vision conversational ai / natural-language processing economics information and knowledge management machine learning operations research and optimization quantum technologies robotics search and information retrieval security, privacy, and abuse prevention sustainability, automated reasoning, cloud and systems, computer vision, conversational ai / natural-language processing, economics, information and knowledge management, machine learning, operations research and optimization, quantum technologies, robotics, search and information retrieval, security, privacy, and abuse prevention, sustainability, automated reasoning, cloud and systems, computer vision, conversational ai / natural-language processing, economics, information and knowledge management, machine learning, operations research and optimization, quantum technologies, robotics, search and information retrieval, security, privacy, and abuse prevention, sustainability, blog, news and features awards and recognitions awards and recognitions, awards and recognitions, awards and recognitions, publications, conferences, collaborations academics at amazon alexa prize amazon research awards academics at amazon alexa prize amazon research awards, academics at amazon, alexa prize, amazon research awards, academics at amazon, alexa prize, amazon research awards, careers internships working at amazon internships working at amazon, internships, working at amazon, internships, working at amazon, amazon sustainability report, climate change, decarbonization, renewable energy, the climate pledge, the critical role of process analysis in chemical recycling and upcycling of waste plastics scott r. nicholson, julie e. rorrer, avantika singh, mikhail o. konev, nicholas a. rorrer, alberta c. carpenter, alan jacobsen, yuriy román-leshkov, gregg t. beckham 2022 there is an urgent need for new technologies to enable circularity for synthetic polymers, spurred by the accumulation of waste plastics in landfills and the environment and the contributions of plastics manufacturing to climate change. chemical recycling is a promising means to convert waste plastics into molecular intermediates that can be remanufactured into new products. given the growing interest in sustainability, a predictive model for severe covid-19 in the medicare population: a tool for prioritizing primary and booster covid-19 vaccination bettina experton, hassan a. tetteh, nicole lurie, peter walker, adrien elena, christopher s. hein, blake schwendiman, justin l. vincent, christopher r. burrow biology 2021 recommendations for prioritizing covid-19 vaccination have focused on the elderly at higher risk for severe disease. existing models for identifying higher risk individuals lack the needed integration of socio-demographic and clinical risk factors. using multivariate logistic regression and random forest modeling, we developed a predictive model of severe covid-19 using clinical data from medicare claims information and knowledge management, seasonal arctic sea ice forecasting with probabilistic deep learning tom r. andersson, j. scott hosking, maría pérez-ortiz, brooks paige, andrew elliott, chris russell, stephen law, daniel c. jones, jeremy wilkinson, tony phillips, james byrne, steffen tietsche, beena balan sarojini, eduardo blanchard-wrigglesworth, yevgeny aksenov, rod downie, emily shuckburgh nature communications 2021 anthropogenic warming has led to an unprecedented year-round reduction in arctic sea ice extent. this has far-reaching consequences for indigenous and local communities, polar ecosystems, and global climate, motivating the need for accurate seasonal sea ice forecasts. while physics-based dynamical models can successfully forecast sea ice concentration several weeks ahead, they struggle to outperform simple computer vision, position paper: reducing amazon’s packaging waste using multimodal deep learning prasanth meiyappan, matthew bales kdd 2021 workshop: fragile earth 2021 since 2015, amazon has reduced the weight of its outbound packaging by 36%, eliminating over 1,000,000 tons of packaging material worldwide, or the equivalent of over 2 billion shipping boxes, thereby reducing carbon footprint throughout its fulfillment supply chain. in this position paper, we share insights on using deep learning to identify the optimal packaging type best suited to ship each item in a computer vision, aws cord-19 search: a neural search engine for covid-19 literature parminder bhatia, lan liu, kristjan arumae, nima pourdamghani, suyog deshpande, ben snively, mona mona, colby wise, george price, shyam ramaswamy, xiaofei ma, ramesh nallapati, zhiheng huang, bing xiang, taha kass-hout aaai workshop on health intelligence (w3phiai-21) 2021 coronavirus disease (covid-19) has been declared as a pandemic by who with thousands of cases being reported each day. numerous scientific articles are being published on the disease raising the need for a service which can organize, and query them in a reliable fashion. to support this cause we present aws cord-19 search (acs), a public, covid19 specific, neural search engine that is powered by several related: two amazon papers were runners-up for best-paper awards at aaai conversational ai / natural-language processing, amazon sustainability report amazon is committed to building a sustainable business for our customers and the planet. learn more about the company's goals, strategies and policies in our sustainability report. view report, amazon and energy dept. team up to change how we recycle plastic alan jacobsen march 09, 2022 amazon joins the us doe’s bio-optimized technologies to keep thermoplastics out of landfills and the environment (bottle™) consortium, focusing on materials and recycling innovation. sustainability, how deep learning is reducing amazon’s packaging waste sean o'neill january 04, 2022 a combination of deep learning, natural language processing, and computer vision enables amazon to hone in on the right amount of packaging for each product. machine learning, mario beauregard/adobe finding critical information during disasters staff writer november 22, 2021 lise st. denis, a research scientist at the university of colorado, says social media can be useful for responders. now she's helping them separate truly useful info from the noise. machine learning, serguei netessine wins public sector operations research award november 12, 2021 paper by netessine and co-authors focuses on encouraging adoption of sustainable, off-grid lighting solutions in poorer areas of the world. sustainability, about amazon the science of operations planning under uncertainty mariana lenharo november 09, 2021 how the amazon logistics research science team guides important decisions related to last-mile delivery. operations research and optimization, john cairns philip stier is cracking cloud-based climate conundrums sean o'neill october 05, 2021 the oxford professor says merging ai, ml, and climate science can help us understand the impact of aerosol-cloud interactions on climate. sustainability, creating sustainable, data-driven buildings bharathan balaji, rob aldrich september 22, 2021 as office buildings become smarter, it is easier to configure them with sustainability management in mind. sustainability, courtesy of alexandre bayen alexandre bayen is a driving force behind mixed-autonomy traffic sean o'neill august 23, 2021 coordinated automation could improve traffic flow, boost efficiency, and slash emissions. a combination of machine learning, big data, and amazon web services is making this future possible. machine learning, joe sohm/spiritofamerica - stock.adobe.co how aws contributes to an earthquake safety system for the us west coast staff writer july 14, 2021 with the help of new machine learning techniques, a team at caltech is upgrading their system to help scientists identify more earthquakes — and understand why they happen. machine learning, davidionut/adobe amazon scientist lectures at a specialized ai summer school christina nunez july 07, 2021 james hensman joins an effort to expand machine learning talent for un sustainability goals. machine learning, credit: abrill/getty images/istockphoto amazon's scientific approach to meeting – and measuring – its climate goals dara o'rourke june 30, 2021 how amazon is aligning its decarbonization goals with the best available science. sustainability, janiecbros/getty images amazon collaborates with earth system grid federation to increase access to climate model dataset staff writer april 22, 2021 cloud access to the cmip6 dataset will enable climate scientists and researchers to study future climate conditions more easily. sustainability, umerpk/getty images lab126, university of maryland collaborate to develop reliability models to build resilient devices douglas gantenbein march 22, 2021 amazon lab126 and the center for risk and reliability will study how devices are accidentally damaged — and how to help ensure they survive more of those incidents. sustainability, credit: glynis condon how to forge a more gender-equal science community staff writer march 04, 2021 international women's day is march 8 with the theme: #choosetochallenge. sustainability, pixelfit/getty images paper on forecasting spread of covid-19 wins best-paper award danielle maddix robinson, yuyang (bernie) wang february 22, 2021 hybrid model that combines machine learning with differential equations outperforms models that use either strategy by itself. machine learning, using knowledge graphs to streamline covid-19 research miguel romero calvo december 21, 2020 a knowledge graph linking research papers, authors, and topics should make it easier for researchers fighting covid-19 to discover relevant information. information and knowledge management, credit: sergunt aws democratizes access to the largest genomic sequences repository — nih’s sequence read archive staff writer december 09, 2020 for the first time, the largest genomic sequencing repository in the americas will be natively accessible on aws through the open data sponsorship program. cloud and systems, aws fix this podcast features amazon research award recipient philip stier staff writer october 20, 2020 what role do clouds play in climate change? in an effort to understand that question, the hosts of fix this podcast invited philip stier on the program. sustainability, how to compute the optimal way to package amazon products karthik s. gurumoorthy, vineet chaoji october 08, 2020 new statistical model reduces shipment damage by 24% while cutting shipping costs by 5%. operations research and optimization, credit: glynis condon pride and prejudice: 6 amazon scientists share their experiences matthew hepburn june 23, 2020 scientists from glamazon, amazon’s lgbtqia+ affinity group, say this year's pride month is as much about solidarity as it is about celebration. sustainability, about, research areas, blog, news and features, publications, conferences, collaborations, careers, alexa prize, academics, research awards, amazon developer, amazon web services, about amazon, newsletter, rss, twitter, instagram, youtube, facebook, linkedin]