[help center, june 30, 2021, , we are excited to announce the launch of imdb’s refreshed movie and tv show pages! the renewed page is meant to make your imdb experience easy and enjoyable, and its design represents the diverse interests of global entertainment fans. the refresh reflects imdb customer feedback and research designed to enhance entertainment content discovery and navigation., we hope you enjoy exploring imdb’s latest update, and thank you for making imdb the world’s most trusted source for movie, tv, and entertainment content. entertainment fans such as you are at the heart of how far we’ve come, and we’ll continue to listen to your feedback to improve imdb for you., — the imdb website team, the refreshed page preserves existing features and enhances accessibility and navigation for an immersive experience. a few sections — such as plot keywords (located in the storyline section) and episode information (on tv pages) — have been grouped to improve organization and convenience., mobile users will notice more access to movie and tv show content and features than before. plot keywords (located in the storyline section), ,  , episode information (on tv pages), , the newly-refreshed page is mobile responsive to work on devices of all sizes and types (e.g. your laptop, tablet, and phone). it's compatible with most common operating systems and modern web browsers, such as:, however, please note that internet explorer (ie) is no longer supported., for maximum compatibility and performance, make sure your browser is up-to-date., if you’re having issues displaying imdb on your browser, please visit our help page: why is imdb displaying differently on my browser?, you can add titles to your watchlist by selecting the "+" or "+ add to watchlist" button near the top of the page., , additionally, next to the "+ add to watchlist" button, you can select the drop-down arrow to view, create or add to your existing lists., you are welcome to post questions, comments, and feedback on this sprinklr thread., imdb general support][imdb title page refresh]imdb | help[plot keywords, episode information, plot keywords, episode information, "+", + add to watchlist, + add to watchlist][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, imdb what to watch app, imdb's language support, imdb title page refresh, movies that changed my life (an imdb podcast), introducing the imdb api!, chrome, firefox, safari, opera, edge, need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]