[this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper., toggle on to opt out of the "sale" of your personal information related to tailored advertising on this site. to opt out of the "sale" of your personal information related to tailored advertising on other sites, follow the instructions for other sites below., do not sell my personal information, we and our advertising partners collect certain information, including cookies and similar information stored on your browsers, advertising identifiers on your mobile devices, and/or the ip address of your devices when you visit our sites or use our apps. we and our partners use that information to deliver online advertisements to you on your devices and tailor those ads to your interests. such sharing may be considered a "sale" under the california consumer privacy act (ccpa). the ccpa provides a right to opt out of the "sale" of personal information., fox news sites if you wish to opt out of the "sale" of your information in connection with tailored advertising that appears primarily on fox news' websites, move the toggle above to "on.", other sites to also opt out of the "sale" of your information related to tailored advertising on other sites, please visit http://optout.aboutads.info/#/ or http://optout.networkadvertising.org/# and follow the instructions., digital advertising companies have not yet adopted a single method for opting out of "sales" under the ccpa. in the event that you opt out of the "sale" of your information, but do not opt out of interest-based advertising more generally on other websites and apps you visit, you may still receive ads tailored to your interests based upon personal information not "sold" by us, but "sold" by other sources from which you have not opted out., please note that opting out does not mean that you will stop seeing all ads. and after opting out of the "sale" of your personal information as described above, you may still see interest-based ads. because interest-based advertising relies on cookies and other similar technologies, opting out needs to be controlled at the device and/or browser level. to learn more about interest-based advertising across other websites and apps, and your additional choices for opting out of interest-based advertising, please visit http://optout.aboutads.info/#/ or http://optout.networkadvertising.org/#., for mobile and connected tv apps, please visit the do not sell section in account/settings for more information and to exercise your choices. to learn more about our information practices, please see our privacy policy. [https://www.foxnews.com/privacy-policy], this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper.][do not sell my personal information – california privacy rights]do not sell my personal information[fox news sites, other sites][u.s., politics, media, opinion, business, entertainment, sports, lifestyle, weather, tv, fox nation, listen, more, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, facebook, twitter, instagram, rss, email, fox news sites if you wish to opt out of the "sale" of your information in connection with tailored advertising that appears primarily on fox news' websites, move the toggle above to "on.", other sites to also opt out of the "sale" of your information related to tailored advertising on other sites, please visit http://optout.aboutads.info/#/ or http://optout.networkadvertising.org/# and follow the instructions., crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, facebook, twitter, instagram, youtube, flipboard, linkedin, slack, rss, newsletters, spotify, iheartradio, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, accessibility statement]