[help center, check-ins allow you to share what you're watching or previously watched. we save all your check-ins so you can refer to them later in a list. you can optionally add a short comment and share your check-in with your friends on popular social networks., checking in is easy! on almost every title on imdb there is a share link in the upper right of the page, click it and a menu will appear with check in as one of the options. if you're registered with imdb, you can click this button and follow the appropriate prompting to submit a check-in. if you're not registered and logged in you'll be prompted to do so before you can check-in for the first time., , there are a few special cases where we don't allow a check-in. the most prominent of these is for titles that have yet to be released., we allow votes a few weeks before the general theatrical release, and it is the same for check-ins., with the above exception, you can check in for both individual episodes and entire series, or both as you see fit., check-ins can be accessed by navigating to the your lists page, and click "your checkins"., yes, they are public., your check-ins are held in a publicly available url that anyone with a web browser can see., unlike our other lists, you do not currently have the option for private check-ins. please be mindful of this if you check-in for titles that you are not keen for others to know you are watching., however, you do have the option to delete any title you've checked in on the your check-ins page., you cannot reorder a check-in list., the check-in is the order you've seen titles in time, it would not make sense to adjust the time. however, you can delete titles., to share your check-in list, please navigate to the your lists page and click "your checkins". on the your checkins page, click the twitter icon in the section "share this list"., you can also share a list with your friends by copying the url from your browser and sending it to your friends via email., yes., to see how many people have viewed and commented on each list, look for the "list activity" box at the top of the right hand column of the list page., when you delete your account, we remove your name and user id, but your check-in list url will remain active., you will not able to modify it after the account is delete, and if you reinstate your account with a new account id you will not be able to recover your check-ins., no, there is only one check-in list per user at this time., our favored use of this feature is for titles you are currently seeing, however, there is nothing to prevent you from using this as a seen it list for all the titles you have seen since childhood., however, be aware, that may be spamming your friends if you do a lot all at once (and choose to share them via a social network)., absolutely! go ahead an check-in for a film you'll see at a theater tonight and put in the comment whether you want your friends to join you (and where they should meet) - then publish it to a social network. or use it to gather friends at your house., you can export your list to rss by clicking on the small orange square near the header of your list. rss is a portable standard format which you can easily use with a variety of programs., you can also export a list to csv (comma separated values) file by using the "export" link at the bottom right hand corner of the list. you can then use the csv to look at your list in a spreadsheet program like excel., check-in lists do not show up on any of the tagged sections at this time., imdb general support][check-ins faq]imdb | help[your checkins, share this list][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, check-ins faq, need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]