[help center, , , 1. get the average ratings for suicide squad (2021) and the number of people who rated the title., , request:, , response:, , , request:, , response:, 2. get the runtime, the release date and the coloration for the movie wall·e., , request:, , response:, ,        3. for the movie wall·e, get the name text and the credit category of the first 2 credits., request:, , response:, ,         4. for the movie inception, get the first two credits. from those two credits, get the name associated with that credit. for that name, find two titles that they are known for, the imdb star rating of that movie and the name of the character they played in that movie.,  , request:, , response:, ,        5. get inception and the dark knight. for those two titles, get the first keyword and how interested users were with the keyword., request:, , response:, ,         6. get episodes for the tv series futurama., request:, , response:, ,         1. list the first three awards that jennifer lawrence, morgan freeman and patrick swayzee have won:, request:, , response:, ,        1. get the opening weekend gross internationally for wall·e, request:, ,  , response:, ,         2. get the international lifetime gross for fight club, request:, ,  , response:, ,        3. get the production budget for fight club, request:, ,  , response:, ,         1. get the top 5 movie titles that most closely match the search term goodfellas., request:, , response:, ,         2. get the top 10 name recommendations that match the search term jennifer., request:, , response:, ,  , the imdb api allows you to specify parameters on certain field for pagination and to control which results you receive. there are up to 6 different parameters depending on the return type of the field.,  , pagination is used to traverse the relationship between sets of objects, more information on pagination is available on the graphql documentation. the imdb api uses cursor-based pagination based on the relay implementation. cursors are available on the edge field, which can be used for pagination in follow up queries. the cursor is dependent on the edge’s position in the list, and may change if items are added/removed.,  , for queries that return a list, either the first or the last parameter is required. these return the first (or last) n items respectively, and are mutually exclusive.,        ·  returns the first n items after an optional cursor value. if no cursor value is specified it returns the first n items in the list., this is often useful if the client needs only a subset of the dataset.,  , request:, ,  , response:, ,  ,        ·  returns the last n items before an optional cursor value. if no cursor value is specified it returns the last n items in the list., this is useful if the client needs to reverse the page order or return the last items in a sorted list.,  , request:, ,  , response:, ,  ,        ·  used in conjunction with first,        ·  returns the last n results after an edge given its cursor, request:, ,  , response:, ,  , if you want to get the first 3 results after bm0wmdawntaxl3r0mda5oty4ns9hy3rvcg==, you can make another query which uses this  cursor field as an argument for after:, ,  , response:, , from this we can see that the 3rd node in the original query with name id nm0000582 is now the first node in this query since we specified for nodes after the edge with the cursor bm0wmdawntaxl3r0mda5oty4ns9hy3rvcg==.,  , this can be useful when the client needs to request the first 3 credits, and then make a follow up query later on to request the next 3 credits.,  , the below example is for when the client needs the first three movies that brad pitt is known for after the edge that has a cursor id "mw==". this pagination is useful for when you’ve already got the first n nodes and you want more data, so you take the cursor of the last edge you have and get the other edges onward from the edge you already have:,  , , response:, ,  ,        ·  used in conjunction with last,        ·  returns the last n results before an edge given its cursor,  , request:, ,  , response:, ,  , if you want to get the last 3 results before the node with name id nm1014650 , you can make another query which uses the cursor field of the edge as the parameter for before:, ,  , response:, , this has returned the last 3 items before bm0xmde0njuwl3r0mda5oty4ns9taxnjzwxsyw5lb3vz which includes bm0wmtq4odq0l3r0mda5oty4ns9taxnjzwxsyw5lb3vz from the previous query.,  ,        ·  requires first or last,        ·  returns the first/last n results after/before and including the id of the node specified in jumpto,        ·  based on the id of the node rather than the cursor of the edge,  , for example, if you wanted to get the first 3 certificates after and including the certificate with id ce0503172:, ,  , response:, ,  , this can be useful in pagination when you need to query results after a specific nodes id instead of the  cursor of the edge which requires a previous query. ,  ,        ·  filter results for a given field according the corresponding filter input. this may be an inclusion-based filter (e.g. credits for "directors", "producers" and "writers") or an exclusion-based filter (e.g. exclude spoilers),  , request:, ,  , response:, , imdb general support][imdb api metadata and example queries, , ratings queries, title queries, name queries, box office queries, search queries, using parameters & pagination in graphql queries, first, last, after, before, jumpto, filter]imdb | help[][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, why doesn't a title with the average user vote of 9.4 appear in your top 250 movies or tv list?, polls faq, how can i send a suggestion for a future imdb daily poll?, introducing the imdb api!, getting started with the imdb api, imdb api metadata and example queries, need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]