[help center, imdb's mobile optimized website gives you access to movie and tv title pages as well celebrity and industry professional pages. we offer our most popular data including: quotes, trivia, plot summaries, synopsis, birth dates and celebrity mini-bios., you also have quick access to showtimes, trailers, photos, tv network schedules, tv show recaps, box office results, imdb top rated movies of all time, imdb top rated tv shows of all time, moviemeter (most searched titles on imdb) and starmeter (most searched celebrities on imdb)., the m.imdb.com mobile site will work on any mobile device with a web browser. for an optimal experience, we recommend: , yes, m.imdb.com is currently available worldwide in english, with other languages coming soon., 1. from the home screen, select "sign in" in the upper right corner, , 2. select the option you would like to sign in with (imdb, amazon, google, facebook), , by default, your location will be automatically determined when you navigate to the home page or showtimes page, if your device is gps enabled. the search radius for theaters near you is about 10 miles. , if you don't see your favorite theater, you can provide your home zip code manually or a zip code in which your favorite theaters reside. to provide a zip code manually:, imdb tv is not available via mobile browsers at this time. for more information about imdb tv, please see the imdb tv faq., imdb's mobile site saves your most recent page visits on the device for approximately one hour to allow fast loading (such as when accessing "coming soon" and "moviemeter" lists)., if you believe data is stale you can force a refresh by refreshing the page from your mobile browser's navigation options., imdb has developed apps for ios and android devices, available in each platform's app store., no, you may not do so at this time from within a mobile browser. you can switch to the desktop version of imdb in the footer of each page., please see our mobile registration help., if you experience any issues purchasing a ticket, after leaving imdb.com, please contact atom tickets directly by any of the following means:, phone - (844) 838-6284, email - support@atomtickets.com, online - atom tickets support, imdb general support][mobile site faq]imdb | help[sign in, in theaters, near, set location, update, coming soon, moviemeter][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, android app faq, ios app faq, imdb app notifications, mobile site faq, how do i reset my password on the mobile site?, imdb app general troubleshooting, iphone: use your safari browser, android: use your native webkit browser, kindle: use your webkit browser, navigate to m.imdb.com via your mobile browser, on the imdb mobile site home page, select "in theaters" in the explore movies & tv shows section, under "near", select the current location to see the "set location" settings, enter your zip/postal code and country, select "update", need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]