[help center, the imdb movies & tv app for ios gives you access to our catalog of more than 4 million movie, tv and entertainment programs and more than 6 million cast and crew members, including celebrities, actors, actresses, and directors. you can watch trailers, exclusive interviews, and imdb original videos., look up showtimes near you, buy tickets, and check out critic and user reviews. get breaking entertainment news, and follow all of the latest awards and events. sign in to track what you want to watch on your watchlist, rate movies and tv shows you’ve seen, check in and share what you're watching, and set your favorite theaters., get notified about featured trailers, new movies hitting theaters, the latest entertainment trends, and awards and events news., the ios version of imdb have access to all title and name pages. we offer our most popular data items in the app., you can also sign in to rate movies and tv shows, manage your watchlist, create and share lists, check in and share what you are watching, and set your favorite theaters., the imdb app is free. visit the app store on your device and search for "imdb". select and install the application titled "imdb movies & tv"., yes, the imdb movies & tv app for ios is available worldwide. app menus are available in english, spanish, german, french, italian, portuguese, japanese, korean, chinese and brazilian portuguese languages., we also have an app for android and kindle fire devices. our mobile site, m.imdb.com, offers a fast way to get just the right amount of information on the go from other mobile devices., yes, the imdb app requires an internet connection as imdb data is retrieved live from imdb to ensure you’re getting the most up-to-date information., 1. from the home screen, select the "you" tab in the lower right corner., , 2. select "sign in/sign up", , 3. select the option you would like to sign in with (imdb, amazon, google, facebook, apple [ios 13+]), , we currently support device location for countries where we have showtime listing for local theaters., you'll be able to select your location for the following countries:, imdb general support][ios app faq]imdb | help["you", "about", account][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, android app faq, ios app faq, imdb app notifications, mobile site faq, how do i reset my password on the mobile site?, imdb app general troubleshooting, from the home screen, select the "you" tab in the lower right corner., go to settings by clicking on the "gear" icon on the top right hand corner., under "general", select "about"., your user id will be listed next to account., we currently support device location for countries where we have showtime listing for local theaters. you'll be able to select your location for the following countries: argentina australia austria canada chile colombia germany france italy mexico spain new zealand portugal united kingdom united states, argentina, australia, austria, canada, chile, colombia, germany, france, italy, mexico, spain, new zealand, portugal, united kingdom, united states, need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]