[help center, updated 14-february-2022, english | français | deutsch | हिन्दी | italiano | português | español, imdb is the world's most popular and authoritative source for information on movies, tv shows, and celebrities. that's why we are pleased to begin supporting eight additional languages on select pages of the imdb website. this means you will see the user interface, movie and show titles, plots, and metadata in your language of preference when available., if you have feedback on this new experience, please leave us a comment on sprinklr. the team building the imdb language experience will be reviewing this thread regularly. thank you! , imdb will now support:, not all of imdb is available in the supported languages above, and imdb is eager to provide language support to our customers as soon as possible. however, only certain pages like the new home and title pages can support languages other than english at this time., you may find while navigating the site that parts or whole pages are still in english. when we do not have information in your preferred language, we will default to english. we hope this provides a balance between providing access to our extensive database, and displaying information in your language of choice., you may have noticed imdb automatically began displaying content in your language of preference. there are two ways we do this:, there is a language selector drop down in the top right corner of the navigation bar. it will display an abbreviated version of the currently selected language when closed., if you have your browser or device set to one of the newly supported languages:, to change your selection, click on the drop down and then click on your preferred language. the page will automatically reload., changing your preferred language only works on pages that support the new languages. if the language selector is disabled, try navigating to home or a title page. for more information, please view the faq: “why are some pages or content not available in my language of preference?”, currently, english is the only fully supported language on imdb. when english is selected, all content is displayed in that language., any language other than english is considered partially supported on imdb. when one of these languages are selected, we will display as much content in that language as possible. however, some content will remain in english. for more information, please view the faq: “why are some pages or content not available in my language of preference?”, we are working to expand our language coverage across the site so we can provide the best experience possible. you can help us by becoming a contributor and submitting non-english content., if you are signed in and have a title display language set we will attempt to make the site language match (as displayed in the language selector)., changing the language of the site through the language selector will automatically update your title display settings to match. for instance, if you selected french (france) in the language selector your settings will become “title display language: french” and “title display country/region: france.”, , imdb general support][imdb's language support,  frequently asked questions]imdb | help[profile drop down > account settings > content settings > title pages, why are some pages or content not available in my language of preference?, why are some pages or content not available in my language of preference?][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, imdb what to watch app, imdb's language support, imdb title page refresh, movies that changed my life (an imdb podcast), introducing the imdb api!, french (canada), french (france), german, hindi, italian, portuguese (brazil), spanish (mexico), spanish (spain), we detect your mobile device or browser language settings and it matches one of our newly supported languages (see list list above)., if you are signed in to your imdb account and have previously selected one of our newly supported languages for the title text display setting (profile drop down > account settings > content settings > title pages). , french - fr, german - de, hindu - hi, italian - it, portuguese - pt, spanish - es, if your title display settings match one of the language and region combinations in the language selector, then both title display settings and site language will be the same., if your title display settings match only the language in the language selector then the site language will be the same and we will choose a region for you:, french - france, german - germany, hindi - india, portuguese - brazil, spanish - spain, if your title display settings do not match any of the languages in the language selector then the default language will be english (us)., need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]