[advertisement, , send any friend a story, as a subscriber, you have 10 gift articles to give each month. anyone can read what you share., hosted by michael barbaro, produced by asthaa chaturvedi, mooj zadie and kaitlin roberts, edited by marc georges and mike benoist, original music by dan powell and marion lozano, engineered by chris wood, this episode contains descriptions of suicide., over the past five years, a series of investigations by the times has revealed the terror and tragedy that america’s air wars, despite being promoted as the most precise in history, have brought to civilians on the ground., the program has also exacted a heavy toll on the military personnel guiding the drones to their targets. they include soldiers such as capt. kevin larson, a decorated pilot, who died by suicide after a drug arrest and court-martial., for suicide prevention resources in the united states, go to speakingofsuicide.com/resources. go here for resources outside the united states., dave philipps, a national correspondent covering the military for the new york times., captain larson was one of the best drone pilots in the u.s. air force. yet as the job weighed on him and untold others, the military failed to recognize its full impact., there are a lot of ways to listen to the daily. here’s how., transcripts of each episode are available by the next workday. you can find them at the top of the page., david philipps contributed reporting., the daily is made by lisa tobin, rachel quester, lynsea garrison, clare toeniskoetter, paige cowett, michael simon johnson, brad fisher, larissa anderson, chris wood, jessica cheung, stella tan, alexandra leigh young, lisa chow, eric krupke, marc georges, luke vander ploeg, m.j. davis lin, dan powell, dave shaw, sydney harper, robert jimison, mike benoist, liz o. baylen, asthaa chaturvedi, kaitlin roberts, rachelle bonja, diana nguyen, marion lozano, corey schreppel, anita badejo, rob szypko, elisheba ittoop, chelsea daniel, mooj zadie, patricia willens, rowan niemisto, jody becker, rikki novetsky and john ketchum., our theme music is by jim brunberg and ben landsverk of wonderly. special thanks to sam dolnick, paula szuchman, cliff levy, lauren jackson, julia simon, mahima chablani, sofia milan, desiree ibekwe, wendy dorr, elizabeth davis-moorer, jeffrey miranda, renan borelli and maddy masiello., advertisement][the unseen trauma of america’s drone pilots, killing targets in remote attacks has had a deep and troubling effect on those who fly the missions., listen and follow the daily apple podcasts | spotify | stitcher, on today’s episode, background reading, site information navigation]the unseen trauma of america’s drone pilots - the new york times[send any friend a story, 10 gift articles, listen and follow the daily, apple podcasts, |, spotify, |, stitcher, on today’s episode, dave philipps, background reading, there are a lot of ways to listen to the daily., transcripts of each episode are available by the next workday. you can find them at the top of the page.][give this article, , , +, may 9, 2022  •  34:37 the unseen trauma of america’s drone pilots, may 8, 2022  •  1:02:59 the sunday read: ‘it was just a kayaking trip. until it upended our lives.’, may 7, 2022 the story of roe v. wade, part 2: the culture wars (from the archive), may 7, 2022 the story of roe v. wade, part 1: who was jane roe? (from the archive), may 6, 2022  •  41:30 a post-roe america, part 1: the anti-abortion activists, may 5, 2022  •  22:42 a post-roe map of america, may 4, 2022  •  29:09 is this how roe ends?, may 3, 2022  •  36:24 the mar-a-lago midterms, may 2, 2022  •  33:57 are unions making a comeback?, may 1, 2022 the sunday read: ‘this was trump pulling a putin’, april 29, 2022  •  26:36 the risks of a new u.s. approach in ukraine, april 28, 2022  •  25:42 most of us have had covid, send any friend a story as a subscriber, you have 10 gift articles to give each month. anyone can read what you share. give this article, , , +, read in app, captain larson was one of the best drone pilots in the u.s. air force. yet as the job weighed on him and untold others, the military failed to recognize its full impact., © 2022 the new york times company, nytco, contact us, accessibility, work with us, advertise, t brand studio, your ad choices, privacy policy, terms of service, terms of sale, site map, canada, international, help, subscriptions]