[advertisement, supported by, dashawn carter was found hanging in his cell in an apparent suicide during a time of deepening crisis for the jail., send any friend a story, as a subscriber, you have 10 gift articles to give each month. anyone can read what you share., by winnie hu and jan ransom, a 25-year-old homeless man is believed to have committed suicide at the rikers island jail complex in new york city on saturday evening, according to people familiar with the case., the man, dashawn carter, was found hanging from a window in his cell at the anna m. kross center just two days after being transferred back to rikers from a state psychiatric hospital, according to a person with knowledge of the circumstances surrounding his death., mr. carter is the fourth person to die in custody there this year, during a time when correction officials face increasing pressure to show that they can keep inmates safe in the notorious jail complex in the east river., louis a. molina, the recently appointed commissioner of new york city’s department of correction, has less than two weeks to present a plan to address the crisis at rikers or risk a federal takeover of the jail., when mr. carter was returned to rikers on thursday, mental health officials at the jail cleared him to be held in a general population housing area known as quad upper 12, according to the person familiar with his case., mr. carter was later found slumped over in a partially seated position near his bed around 5 p.m. on saturday, said joseph russo, the president of the union representing deputy wardens and assistant deputy wardens. mr. russo said the housing area had an officer on the floor who called for medical assistance., jeanette merrill, a spokeswoman for correctional health services, which provides health care in the city’s jails, declined to comment on mr. carter’s case, saying the provider is “unable to share patient health information because of health privacy laws.”, correction officials said that mr. carter’s death was under investigation., mr. carter had been taken into custody after being charged with first-degree robbery and third-degree burglary, according to the officials., “any death in custody is a tragic event and an impactful loss,” commissioner molina said in a statement on sunday. “we are truly heartbroken for this person’s family and loved ones and we wish to express our deepest condolences. as with all deaths in custody, we will work with our partner agencies on an immediate and full investigation.”, advertisement][man, 25, is the fourth inmate to die at rikers this year, site information navigation]man, 25, is the fourth inmate to die at rikers this year - the new york times[send any friend a story, 10 gift articles][give this article, , , send any friend a story as a subscriber, you have 10 gift articles to give each month. anyone can read what you share. give this article, , , read in app, © 2022 the new york times company, nytco, contact us, accessibility, work with us, advertise, t brand studio, your ad choices, privacy policy, terms of service, terms of sale, site map, canada, international, help, subscriptions]