[all refinitiv websites use cookies to improve your online experience. they were placed on your computer when you launched this website. you can change your cookie settings through your browser., the global leader in independent fund performance data., learn more, it was not surprising that q1 2022 was in general a negative quarter for the european ..., the lipper general u.s. treasury funds classification consists of funds that invest ..., to download the full this week in earnings report click here. please note: if you ..., click here to view the full report. please note: if you use our earnings data, please ..., to download the full weekly aggregates report click here. please note: if you use our ..., “world’s richest man with extraordinary track record looking for investment partners ..., during refinitiv lipper's fund-flows week ended may 4, 2022, investors were overall net ..., for the month, only 9% of all closed-end funds (cefs) posted net-asset-value ..., last update: may 5, 2022 click here to view the full report. please note: if you use ..., last update: may. 5, 2022     download the full tsx composite earnings scorecard ..., the lipper international income funds classification is defined as funds that state in ..., as we approach the halfway mark in europe, earnings growth has provided a much-needed ..., last update: may 5, 2022 click here to view the full report. please note: if you use ..., last update: may 3, 2022 download the full report here. stoxx 600: q1 2022 earnings ..., last update: may. 5, 2022     download the full tsx composite earnings scorecard ..., last update: apr. 29, 2022 to download the full this week in earnings report ..., last update: apr. 29, 2022 to download the full weekly aggregates report click ..., , , regarding esg, where does your focus lie?, , view results, refinitiv provides solutions to the global financial community - delivering critical news, information and analytics, enabling transactions and connecting communities of trading, investing, financial and corporate professionals.][]lipper alpha insight | refinitiv[monday morning memo: let’s talk about esg – assets under management and flow trends, q1 2022, investors pour money into lipper general u.s. treasury funds despite performance, this week in earnings 22q1 | may 6, 2022, regarding esg, where does your focus lie?, we have updated our privacy statement][myrefinitiv, refinitiv perspectives, developers, careers, subscribe to updates, contact, support, commentary & research, events, lipper, starmine, may 9, 2022 monday morning memo: let’s talk about esg – assets under management and flow trends, q1 2022 it was not surprising that q1 2022 was in general a negative quarter for the european fund industry ..., may 6, 2022 investors pour money into lipper general u.s. treasury funds despite performance the lipper general u.s. treasury funds classification consists of funds that invest primarily in ..., may 6, 2022 this week in earnings 22q1 | may 6, 2022 to download the full this week in earnings report click here. please note: if you use our ..., chart of the week: us jobs market still strong, news in charts: china’s economic woes mount, chart of the week: are electric vehicles the new smartphone?, news in charts: the rise of hoarding, chart of the week: consumer headwinds in china, investmentnews podcast: the lipper funds awards reflect the new normal, cefa podcast: refinitiv lipper’s q4 2021 closed-end fund market review, cefa podcast: refinitiv lipper’s q3 2021 closed-end fund market review, cefa podcast: refinitiv lipper’s june 2021 closed-end fund market review, the two biggest risks for markets | the big conversation | refinitiv, cefa podcast: refinitiv lipper’s march 2021 closed-end fund market review, cefa podcast: refinitiv lipper’s february 2021 closed-end fund market review, cefa podcast: refinitiv lipper’s january 2021 closed-end fund market review, refinitiv lipper weekly u.s. fund flows video series – january 13, 2021, cefa podcast: refinitiv lipper’s december closed-end fund market review, environmental, social, governance, a holistic esg view, online, 9:00 uae time, , online, 9:00 uae time, , online, 9:00 new delhi time, , facebook, twitter, linkedin, youtube, youtube, rss, terms & conditions, privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, terms of use, contact]