[this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper., twitter buyer hits ‘extremist’ dems, ‘far right.’, the washington post continued its crusade against tesla ceo elon musk after claiming "women and people of color could suffer the most" after his purchase of twitter., on friday, the publication promoted an article questioning musk’s policy for content moderation after finalizing his $44 billion deal to buy the social media company. the paper later shared the article on saturday through its twitter account. , elon musk’s mom slams nyt over story suggesting he was ‘detached from apartheid’s atrocities’ in south africa , "with elon musk’s looming takeover, the future of twitter’s content moderation is uncertain. experts say women and people of color could suffer the most," the washington post tweeted., the washington post tweeted "with elon musk’s looming takeover, the future of twitter’s content moderation is uncertain. experts say women and people of color could suffer the most." (twitter), the tweet was mocked by critics, who called out the paper’s insistence that women and minorities would suffer from musk’s content moderation., "they’re not going to stop," the spectator contributing editor stephen l. miller tweeted., stephen miller tweeted "they’re not going to stop" (twitter), grabien founder tom elliott wrote "this trick has lost its punch.", tom elliott tweeted "this trick has lost its punch" (twitter), newsbusters executive editor tim graham wrote, "prototypical liberal media phrasing: ‘experts say women and people of color will suffer the most.’", tim graham tweeted "prototypical liberal media phrasing: ‘experts say women and people of color will suffer the most.’" (twitter), the washington post has been a frequent critic of musk’s purchase of twitter since the billionaire's initial 9.2% purchase of stock in the company in early april. as musk’s takeover of the social media company grew more and more imminent, washington post reporters and contributors became more critical of musk and his policy on free speech., washington post spotlights protest leader outside justice kavanaugh’s house , most notably, washington post columnist max boot published a column claiming that musk should be "last person who should take over twitter.", "anyone who thinks the problem with social media is too much content moderation, rather than too little, should not own one of the most powerful platforms online," boot wrote., the attacks came despite the washington post being similarly purchased in 2013 by amazon billionaire jeff bezos. , brazil - 2022/04/11: in this photo illustration, the official profile of elon musk on the social network twitter. the billionaire elon musk bought 9% of twitter, an investment of usd 3 billion. (photo illustration by rafael henrique/sopa images/lightrocket via getty images) (photo illustration by rafael henrique/sopa images/lightrocket via getty images), click here to get the fox news app, musk often mocks the washington post’s articles that are critical of him on his twitter account., fox news’ joseph wulfsohn contributed to this report., lindsay kornick is an associate editor for fox news digital. story tips can be sent to lindsay.kornick@fox.com and on twitter: @lmkornick., get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox, subscribed, you've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!, this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper.][twitter users mock wapo's claim women and people of color will suffer most from elon musk twitter buyout, the washington post has been on a crusade against musk's purchase of the social media company]twitter users mock wapo's claim women and people of color will suffer most from elon musk twitter buyout | fox news[published, elon musk’s mom slams nyt over story suggesting he was ‘detached from apartheid’s atrocities’ in south africa,  , washington post spotlights protest leader outside justice kavanaugh’s house,  , click here to get the fox news app][u.s., politics, media, opinion, business, entertainment, sports, lifestyle, weather, tv, fox nation, listen, more, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, facebook, twitter, instagram, rss, email, facebook, twitter, flipboard, comments, print, email, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, facebook, twitter, instagram, youtube, flipboard, linkedin, slack, rss, newsletters, spotify, iheartradio, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, accessibility statement]