[this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper., , a family in the midwest is expressing enormous gratitude for their video doorbell system — which alerted them to a wildfire that began burning right outside their home., misty schlake of gothenberg, nebraska, downloaded the stunning recording from her ring video doorbell and sent it to the home security company., "ring did so much more than [let] us know someone was at our door! it saved my son’s life and our home!", the doorbell notified schlake’s 18-year-old son, who was home alone at the time, that there was movement outside their family home on thursday, april 21, at around 9:15 p.m., "when he went to the door, he saw our land was on fire," schlake wrote in comments to ring. , "my son called 911 and thanks to ring, our house and all the structures were saved.", man rescues engagement ring, proposes after home burns down, ring exclusively shared a spliced down one-minute and 48-second clip with fox news digital, which clearly shows that the blaze is only a short distance away., an 18-year-old from gothenberg, nebraska, received a motion detection alert from his family's ring video doorbell on april 21, 2022. (misty schlake/ring), schlake’s son can be seen making a phone call as he checks the porch and front yard. , he’s joined by the family's dog as they wait for emergency services to arrive., georgia woman captures surprise visit by dairy cows on security video: udderly ridiculous!, the cool-under-pressure teen spoke directly to his mother through the doorbell’s two-way speaker while light-flashing emergency vehicles pulled up nearby in response to the fire., "the house is good," he said at one point, giving a thumbs-up sign., the family home remained untouched while most of the observable surrounding land hadn’t been severely damaged., schlake can be heard asking him how he felt at the moment. , her son described the moment as "shocking" — but confirmed that he was alright., 11-year-old girl saves puppy after noticing neighbor's house on fire, "i looked out the window, and then i saw … just hellfire," he continued. "but yeah, they got here pretty fast. so ... here i am.", the video concludes by showing that the family home remained untouched while most of the observable surrounding land hadn’t been severely damaged., the lone teen calmly speaks to his mother, misty schlake, through the doorbell’s two-way speaker. he provides an update on their home while emergency services responds to the blaze. (misty schlake/ring), schlake said she’s grateful her son had been alerted to the fire. , she and her husband "had left for a long weekend" and were about "three hours away.", mark ballmer, fire chief of the gothenburg volunteer fire department, confirmed that firefighters responded to the april blaze. he told fox news digital that an improperly discarded cigarette likely started the fire., ring camera catches jogger rescuing pets from california house fire: 'special kind of person'   , "[that’s what] we feel happened," ballmer wrote in an email. "[there was] no other ignition source at the site of origin, so a discarded cigarette from the public road is suspected as the cause.", he went on to note that gothenburg had "very dry and windy conditions" at the time of the fire., the fire reportedly took three hours to put out, but it did not damage the schlake family home. the family's dog can be seen here afterward. (misty schlake/ring), schlake said she believes the doorbell notification saved her son’s life and home., "if that had not happened, we could have lost so much," schlake wrote in her statement to ring. , "just wanted to say thank you," she also said. "ring did so much more than [let] us know someone was at our door! it saved my son’s life and our home!", "my daughter and in-laws came to the house to make sure all was ok along with half the town.", "we live out in the country," the mom also said. "we have land that our house and barns sit on, and connected to that is 40 acres of [grassland].", click here to get the fox news app, she added that the fire torched "almost all 40 acres" in the three hours it took to put it out, but luckily "no one was hurt.", follow us on facebook for more fox lifestyle news, "things could have been so much worse. the fire was around 100 yards from our front door," said schlake. , "my daughter and in-laws came to the house to make sure all was ok along with half the town.", cortney moore is an associate lifestyle writer/producer for fox news digital. story tips can be sent on twitter at @cortneymoore716., , parallels of the ark: how noah's journey symbolizes jesus, fun stories about food, relationships, the great outdoors and more., subscribed, you've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!, this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper.][nebraska teen and entire home saved from shocking wildfire by video doorbell system, mom misty schlake of nebraska said she’s happy that before fire struck, she had a ring video doorbell installed]nebraska teen and entire home saved from shocking wildfire by video doorbell system | fox news[published, man rescues engagement ring, proposes after home burns down, georgia woman captures surprise visit by dairy cows on security video: udderly ridiculous!, 11-year-old girl saves puppy after noticing neighbor's house on fire, ring camera catches jogger rescuing pets from california house fire: 'special kind of person',    , click here to get the fox news app, follow us on facebook for more fox lifestyle news][u.s., politics, media, opinion, business, entertainment, sports, lifestyle, weather, tv, fox nation, listen, more, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, facebook, twitter, instagram, rss, email, facebook, twitter, flipboard, comments, print, email, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, facebook, twitter, instagram, youtube, flipboard, linkedin, slack, rss, newsletters, spotify, iheartradio, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, accessibility statement]