[ , hms | hsdm | harvard postdocs | sph postdocs, tools for postdocs, postdoc annual individual development planning tool (idp) - the individual development plan (idp) is a mentoring tool that links research goals with career development and progress towards independence. it is meant to foster an ongoing and recurring discussion that involves evaluation, goal setting and feedback with input from both postdoc and their faculty mentor. while the nih and nsf require the use of idps for graduate students and postdoctoral researchers supported by nih awards, hms and hsdm strongly recommend its implementation for all postdoctoral fellows, regardless of funding source. the idp template that is linked here provides an open framework that can facilitate an annual planning meeting between the postdoc and mentor that addresses research and professional progress. this document should be filled out by both parties beforehand and discussed during the meeting. , hms/hsdm postdoc mentoring guidelines - appointment of a postdoc fellow initiates a temporary and defined period of advanced mentored training, and since they are expected to engage in independent research while also developing skills and experiences that support their specific career goals and professional development, the postdoc office has drafted mentorship guidelines. these guidelines are designed to link research goals with career development and progress toward independence while defining expectations for the mentor-mentee relationship, laboratory norms, research and career support, and professionalism., aamc appropriate treatment of research trainees (atort) - the atort document outlines the principles that are essential for nurturing supportive and inclusive research training environments which include leadership, professionalism, and equity. it also underlines the importance of not only highlighting behaviors that are appropriate and are embodied by the essential principles but also the need for acknowledging what constitutes mistreatment and inappropriate behavior. lastly, this document provides institutions with a framework to guide the level of response appropriate for each situation. the atort document is meant to be used as a supplemental resource by both research faculty and trainees in a broad range of activities. complementing aamc compacts for biomedical graduate students and postdoctoral appointees, this document was created by the aamc group on research, education, and training. , postdoc training curriculum, summary of opf resources and programs for inclusion in grant submission (word document), opf lending library, nih/nsf definition of a postdoctoral scholar - an individual who has received a doctoral degree (or equivalent) and is engaged in a temporary and defined period of mentored advanced training to enhance the professional skills and research independence needed to pursue his or her chosen career path. , myidp from science careers - myidp is an online tool for helping you create an individual development plan (idp). myidp allows for self-assessment to (a) evaluate career options, (b) customize a professional networking strategy to learn more about top-choice careers, (c) engage mentors in career-related discussions, and (d) implement strategies for how to set goals tailored to skills development and career advancement needs, hms postdoc training for rigor and transparency in research nih "rigor and transparency in research" policy - this is a new nih policy announced in october 2015, with implementation starting january, 2016. the policy applies to most research grant proposals (mechanisms r, p, u, k). rigor and transparency must be addressed in progress reports (rppr), due after january 25, 2016. (section b - accomplishments). it will apply to institutional training grants and fellowships (t, f, & k12) in fy17. it does not apply to equipment or conference grants.  see the rigor & reproducibility policy site for policy details and implementation requirements.,  tools for faculty, postdoc training curriculum, nih/nsf definition of a postdoctoral scholar - an individual who has received a doctoral degree (or equivalent) and is engaged in a temporary and defined period of mentored advanced training to enhance the professional skills and research independence needed to pursue his or her chosen career path. , switching between internal postdoc to stipendee postdoc: benefits impact, summary of opf resources and programs for inclusion in grant submission, template for nih research performance progress report, section b.4 "training and professional development/individual development plans", postdoc annual individual development planning tool (idp) - the individual development plan (idp) is a mentoring tool that links research goals with career development and progress towards independence. it is meant to foster an ongoing and recurring discussion that involves evaluation, goal setting and feedback with input from both postdoc and their faculty mentor. while the nih and nsf require the use of idps for graduate students and postdoctoral researchers supported by nih awards, hms and hsdm strongly recommend its implementation for all postdoctoral fellows, regardless of funding source. the idp template that is linked here provides an open framework that can facilitate an annual planning meeting between the postdoc and mentor that addresses research and professional progress. this document should be filled out by both parties beforehand and discussed during the meeting. , sample/template offer letter (employee), sample/template offer letter (stipendee), sample/template offer letter (direct pay), hms postdoc training for rigor and transparency in research nih "rigor and transparency in research" policy - this is a new nih policy announced in october 2015, with implementation starting january, 2016. the policy applies to most research grant proposals (mechanisms r, p, u, k). rigor and transparency must be addressed in progress reports (rppr), due after january 25, 2016. (section b - accomplishments). it will apply to institutional training grants and fellowships (t, f, & k12) in fy17. it does not apply to equipment or conference grants.  see the rigor & reproducibility policy site for policy details and implementation requirements. , broader impacts guide for nsf grants, tools for administrators, postdoc training curriculum, nih/nsf definition of a postdoctoral scholar - an individual who has received a doctoral degree (or equivalent) and is engaged in a temporary and defined period of mentored advanced training to enhance the professional skills and research independence needed to pursue his or her chosen career path. , summary of opf resources and programs for inclusion in grant submission, template for nih research performance progress report, section b.4 "training and professional development/individual development plans", sample/template offer letter (employee), sample/template offer letter (stipendee), sample/template offer letter (direct pay) , how postdoc benefits are handled upon exit/termination (with exception of vacation payout and harvard-sponsored retirement). , reports & articles of interest (the views and opinions expressed in these articles are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views and and opinions of the opf or harvard medical school.), annual planning meeting as an idp (angela depace molecular cell paper), aamc - "compact between postdoctoral appointees and their mentors: a framework for aligning the graduate student mentor-mentee relationship" (january 2017), the postdoctoral experience revisited (national academies of science, 2014) the biomedical research workforce working group report, "improving graduate education to support a branching career pipeline: recommendations based on a survey of doctoral students in the basic biomedical sciences", "what do i want to be with my phd? the roles of personal values and structural dynamics in shaping the career interests of recent biomedical science phd graduates", "rescuing us biomedical research from its systemic flaws", open mike | dr. michael lauer's blog, postdoc curriculum research info finding funding career info work & life benefits & support community calendars open quad postdoc positions,    follow us on twitter or join our linkedin group to view job opportunites we receive from our partners and colleagues outside of the hms community., , hms/hsdm office for postdoctoral fellows | gordon hall of medicine, room 006 | 25 shattuck street, boston, ma 02115 | postdoc.hms.harvard.edu][tools & resources, resources for postdocs, follow us!]tools & resources | hms/hsdm office for postdoctoral fellows[ , harvard medical school / harvard school of dental medicine, office for, postdoctoral, fellows, tools for postdocs, tools for faculty, tools for faculty, tools for administrators, reports & articles of interest, postdoc curriculum research info, finding funding, career info, work & life, benefits & support, community calendars, open quad postdoc positions][main menu, utility menu, search, events, orientation, getting started, tools & resources, guidelines & policies, faq, covid-19 hms & harvard info, diversity, inclusion, & community values, hms postdoc fellowship programs, harvard & hms affiliate postdoc offices, current international postdocs, non-opf events & announcements, non-quad job opportunities, contact us]