[this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper., fox news medical contributor on the leads into the deaths of three americans in the bahamas and the rise in hepatitis cases in children, the son of a mother who was airlifted to a miami hospital over the weekend after falling ill at a bahamas resort where three other americans were found dead says she woke up during the health scare and "couldn’t move," according to a report. , austin chiarella, the son of vincent and donnis chiarella, said the alabama couple in their mid-60s was celebrating their wedding anniversary at the 5-star sandals emerald bay resort in great exuma when the incident happened friday, according to abc news.  , "she woke up and my dad was laying there on the floor, and she couldn’t move," austin recalled his mother saying after speaking with her over the weekend, the station reported. "her legs and arms [were] swollen and she couldn’t move and she screamed to get someone to come in the door." , the pool area of the sandals emerald bay resort in june 2016. (dimitrios kambouris/getty images for sandals), state department ‘closely monitoring’ after 3 americans found dead at bahamas resort , "i am just so heartbroken right now," austin reportedly added. "my dad was everything to me." , donnis, her son also said, reported feeling sick on thursday but "thought she was all right" after being discharged from a clinic in the bahamas. , he told abc news he was contacted by the u.s. embassy on friday night. , the deceased have not been publicly identified by officials. the two other victims – a man and a woman – were found on the other side of the split beachfront villa where the chiarellas had been staying, nbc’s "today" show reported. , investigators on scene are now looking into the property’s water heater, air conditioner and propane supply for possible leaks, the network added. , autopsy results could come as early as monday., police in the area said it's not clear how the individuals died, stating that their deaths were "sudden." , sandals resort (dimitrios kambouris/getty images for sandals), in a statement to fox news digital, sandals said "nothing is more important to sandals resorts than the safety of our guests., "it is with deep sadness that we can confirm the passing of three guests at sandals emerald bay on may 6, 2022.  a health emergency was initially reported and following our protocols we immediately alerted emergency medical professionals and relevant local authorities," the statement continued. "we are actively working to support both the investigation as well as the guests’ families in every way possible during this difficult time.", we are actively working to support both the investigation as well as the guests’ families in every way possible during this difficult time., 3 americans at bahamas sandals resort found dead in unknown ‘health emergency’ , a state department spokesperson told fox news digital on saturday that it is "closely monitoring" the investigation into the americans' deaths. , "we can confirm the death of three u.s. citizens in the bahamas. we are closely monitoring local authorities’ investigation into the cause of death. we stand ready to provide all appropriate consular assistance. out of respect for the privacy of the families, we have nothing further to add at this time," the spokesperson said. , "on their arrival at the scene they were directed to the first villa. on entering a bedroom, they found a caucasian male laying on the ground unresponsive," the royal bahama police force said in a statement posted to twitter. "an examination of the body was conducted, there was [sic] no signs of trauma found. the local doctor later pronounced the victim dead." , the police officers went to a second villa where a man was found unresponsive and "slumped against a wall in a bathroom." in the bedroom, a woman was found unresponsive. police said the individuals showed signs of "convulsion." , part of the interior at the sandals emerald bay resort. (dimitrios kambouris/getty images for sandals), click here to get the fox news app , "the officers examined the bodies and found no signs of trauma. the local doctor later pronounced both persons dead," the bahama police said. , according to police, one couple attempted to get medical attention the night before. , fox news' adam sabes and caitlin mcfall contributed to this report. , get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox, subscribed, you've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!, this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2022 fox news network, llc. all rights reserved. quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. market data provided by factset. powered and implemented by factset digital solutions. legal statement. mutual fund and etf data provided by refinitiv lipper.][sandals bahamas deaths: son of american hospitalized in miami says she woke up and 'couldn't move', autopsy results for 3 americans found dead at sandals bahamas resort could come as early as today]sandals bahamas deaths: son of american hospitalized in miami says she woke up and 'couldn't move' | fox news[published, state department ‘closely monitoring’ after 3 americans found dead at bahamas resort,  , 3 americans at bahamas sandals resort found dead in unknown ‘health emergency’,  , click here to get the fox news app,  ][u.s., politics, media, opinion, business, entertainment, sports, lifestyle, weather, tv, fox nation, listen, more, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, facebook, twitter, instagram, rss, email, facebook, twitter, flipboard, comments, print, email, crime, military, education, terror, immigration, economy, personal freedoms, fox news investigates, u.n., conflicts, terrorism, disasters, global economy, environment, religion, scandals, executive, senate, house, judiciary, foreign policy, polls, elections, celebrity news, movies, tv news, music news, style news, entertainment video, personal finance, economy, markets, watchlist, lifestyle, real estate, tech, food + drink, cars + trucks, travel + outdoors, house + home, fitness + well-being, style + beauty, family, faith, archaeology, air & space, planet earth, wild nature, natural science, dinosaurs, security, innovation, drones, computers, video games, military tech, coronavirus, healthy living, medical research, mental health, cancer, heart health, children's health, shows, personalities, watch live, full episodes, show clips, news clips, contact us, careers, fox around the world, advertise with us, media relations, corporate information, compliance, supplier diversity, fox weather, fox nation, fox news shop, fox news go, fox news radio, newsletters, podcasts, apps & products, facebook, twitter, instagram, youtube, flipboard, linkedin, slack, rss, newsletters, spotify, iheartradio, new terms of use, new privacy policy, do not sell my personal information, closed captioning policy, help, contact us, accessibility statement]