[ , hms | hsdm | harvard postdocs | sph postdocs, *this section is always being updated. please check with your department administrator or contact the office if you cannot find something.*  hms/hsdm salary and stipend levels, postdoc office annual report each year the postdoc office voluntarily publishes and shares an annual report that summarizes the major activities of the office including programming efforts, successes/challenges, demographics, and policy issues. you can read and download the 2017 report here.  , benefits benefits for postdocs at harvard vary depending on the postdoc’s employment classification (employee, stipendee, or direct-pay). to participate in many of harvard’s benefits, you must be: - employed on a regular university payroll - receiving a paycheck from harvard - working at least 17.5 hours per week or paid at a base annual rate of at least $15,000 click here and here for information about benefits for postdocs click here for information about how benefits are handled upon exit/termination (with exception of vacation payout and harvard-sponsored retirement). , harvard office for gender equity - policies on sexual and gender-based harassment the office for gender equity works to advance harvard’s commitment to providing an environment where each of us feels safe to participate fully in university life—whether studying, teaching, conducting research, or working to support our individual and collective goals., harvard university is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy educational and work environment in which no member of the university community is excluded from, or denied the benefit of, any university program or activity because of their sex, sexual orientation, or gender identity, the university’s policies prohibiting sexual harassment and other sexual misconduct are designed to ensure a safe and non-discriminatory educational and work environment, while complying with all federal regulations and state laws., harvard university has a sexual and gender-based harassment policy, which applies to all harvard students, faculty, staff, postdocs, harvard appointees, and third parties. find out more here title ix coordinator for hms staff and quad-based postdocs: josé martinez, senior hr compliance manager, statement of mutual respect and public discourse at harvard medical school - adopted september 2020, research and professional integrity hms expects everyone in the research community to foster a rigorous, ethical, safe and healthy research environment. the office of academic and research integrity offers support and policies for research integrity and professional integrity., harvard university policy on drugs and alcohol in the workplace the university's policy on drugs and alcohol in the workplace is designed to address the university's concern for the health and well-being of its employees, and to ensure that the harvard community complies with the federal drug-free workplace act of 1988 and the drug-free schools and communities act amendments of 1989.  complete policy., individual development planning (idp) the opf has developed tools and programming to support the implementation of individual development planning (idp). we encourage annual planning meetings between postdoctoral fellows and their mentors and provide templates and guidance for these meetings. the opf also provides boilerplate language for nih and nsf submissions and updates that address requirements for professional development and idp utilization. the opf has also increased its outreach to faculty, partnering with the quad faculty development committee to offer faculty workshops and training in the effective use of individual development planning in the lab. the potential impact of widespread and coordinated faculty participation in the idp process are better retention, faster time to training completion, documentation of progress/issues, better working relationships, and a mutual understanding of research and career path., academic appointment postdoctoral fellows are granted the academic title of "research fellow" in their academic appointing department. the academic appointment and title provides you with a harvard university id badge and privileges associated with officers of harvard university. your academic appointment as a "research fellow" is an annual appointment that commences at the time of your arrival and is renewable on july 1st of each year to end on june 30th of the following year or until your postdoctoral training is completed. a "research fellow" is described in the faculty of medicine handbook (http://fa.hms.harvard.edu/fomhandbook) as an "individual who holds an advanced degree in an appropriate field and who are conducting mentored research with members of the faculty as postdoctoral fellows to develop their research ability and skill." your appointment record is maintained by the hms office of human resources (hr) in the university's hr/payroll/benefits system, peoplesoft., to search the handbook by a keyword, it is recommend that you open the document within your web browser and use document keyword search by selecting "control + f" (or "command + f" on mac). the search field option will open in the upper right-hand corner (lower left-hand corner on mac). please note: this appointment is merely the conveyance of an academic title. although "research fellows" working in the medical school’s affiliated hospitals and institutions may have a hms appointment, they are generally not paid by harvard and their salary and benefits derive and are administered through their place of work. vacation and holidays similar to faculty, full time research fellows who serve on a 12-month basis are allowed all university holidays and up to an additional 20 days of vacation per year at a time arranged with their supervisor. this time may not be accrued from year to year, and there can be no payout of unused vacation time when an appointment ends. sick days sick leave may be taken as needed. if illness extends beyond two weeks then documentation from a doctor may be required to qualify for short term disability coverage. leaves of absence maternity leave click here to download "maternity leave benefits summary for the post docs and faculty of harvard longwood campus and affiliate institutions" post docs here less than 7 years: 75% pay of 8 weeks short term disability + 4 weeks parental leave at 100% post docs here more than 7 years: 100 % pay of 8 weeks short term disability + 4 weeks parental leave, parental leave parental leave for birth or adoptive parents includes up to four weeks of paid time off,to be taken within the 13 weeks following birth or placement for adoption, paid for through the same source as the postdoc’s salary/stipend. you may choose between two options: option 1:one week of leave paid at 100 percent of your current pay rate; option 2: four weeks of leave paid at 75 percent of your current pay rate for those postdocs with less than seven years of service., paid family medical leave (pfml)  - new policy begining january 2021 | informational presentation harvard pfml summary: administrative and professional staff, nonunion staff, postdoctoral fellows (internal and external working on harvard research   leave of absence please contact the hms hr leave of absence specialist: antonia gonzalez, (617) 432-1024 or via email: leave_of_absence@hms.harvard.edu hms/hsdm salary/stipend levels consistent with our historic practice, when the nih announces their new minimum stipend for nrsa fellows, hms will initiate a salary guideline review. any new postdoctoral fellow salary minimum will be agreed upon unanimously and implemented simultaneously across the hms/hsdm pre-clinical departments. the dean of the faculty of medicine, in consultation with the pre-clinical chairs, human resources, the dean for research operations and global programs, and the office for postdoctoral fellows we aim to set the minimum salary at or above the prevailing nih nrsa fellowship scale. incomes above these guidelines are at the discretion of the individual faculty mentors and/or their departments., postdoctoral minimum salary/stipend guidelines go into effect july 1 of the current fiscal year., postgraduate years of experience (pgy), fy '21 july 1, 2020 – june 30, 2021, fy '22 july 1, 2021 – june 30, 2022, fy '23 july 1, 2022 – june 30, 2023, 0, $ 53,500, $ 55,000,  $ 60,000, 1, $ 54,000, $ 55,500,  $ 61,000, 2, $ 54,500, $ 56,000, $ 62,000, 3, $ 55,596, $ 56,712, $ 63,000, 4, $ 57,456, $ 58,608, $ 65,000, 5, $ 59,580, $ 60,780,  $ 67,000, 6, $ 61,800, $ 63,036,  $ 69,000, 7+, $ 64,008, $ 65,292,  $ 71,000, determining salary level (pgy) according the nih stipend guidelines, which we recommend, the salary/stipend level (pgy) for the entire first year of support is determined by the number of full years of relevant postdoctoral experience when hired. relevant experience may include research experience (including industrial), teaching, internship, residency, clinical duties, or other time spent in a health-related field beyond that of the qualifying doctoral degree. when these issues arise, we generally advise that labs/departments use the same criteria as the nih. the presence of eight discrete levels of experience, however, does not constitute an endorsement of extended periods of postdoc research training., full-time training hms follows the nih-nrsa guidelines on defining full-time training. briefly postdoctoral research fellows are required to pursue their research training full time. full-time is generally defined as devoting at least 40 hours per week to research training activities, or as specified by hms in accordance with our own policies. beyond the full-time training, fellows and trainees may engage in part-time employment incidental to their training. fellows and trainees may spend on average, an additional 25% of their time (e.g., 10 hours per week) in part time research, teaching, or clinical employment, so long as those activities do not interfere with, or lengthen, the duration their training. additionally, fas, hsph, and hms/hsdm adhere to the following: additional activities 1) should not conflict with their research obligations; 2) are not inconsistent with the terms of their visa, if applicable; and 3) are not inconsistent with the terms of their fellowship or grant, if applicable. postdoctoral fellows are expected to seek approval from their faculty mentor and to follow the policy on conflict of interests and on outside professional activities., harvard employees working outside massachusetts - tax withholding and remote work during the covid-19 public health emergency revised 11/23/2020 since the pandemic began, and consistent with guidance provided by the commonwealth of massachusetts and the practices of many other employers, harvard has continued to withhold massachusetts tax even though some employees may be working remotely from other states. however, with the start of the new tax year, harvard will change its tax withholding practices for certain states. from the harvard financial administration, office of the controller, tax reporting of fellowship income a fellowship is any amount paid or allowed to, or for the benefit of, an individual to aid such individual in the pursuit of study or research. as research fellows at harvard medical school are non-degree seeking trainees, any fellowship amount received is considered taxable income. for more information, please see the tax services website. please be aware that the tax services unit and the hms/hsdm office for postdoctoral fellows cannot administer individual tax advice in paying income taxes and you are strongly encouraged to seek the assistance of tax professionals. tax information for "non-employee" postdocs or postdocs on fellowships (from the national postdoctoral association)virtually all postdoc fellowships funded from u.s. sources are subject to income tax because they pay for living expenses. however, often fellowships and traineeships are not subject to automatic tax withholding. this is most often true with “direct-paid” fellowships -- fellowship stipends that are paid directly to the postdoc -- although it is sometimes the case with fellowships that are paid through the institution., those fellowships without automatic tax withholding are still subject to the irs requirement that income tax be paid on a regular basis throughout the tax year, and not all at once at the end of the year. thus, postdocs without withholding should make estimated tax payments each quarter in order to avoid a penalty., postdocs on fellowships must also file a tax return between january 15 and april 15 for the previous tax year. postdoc fellows and trainees may receive a w-2 or 1099-misc form reporting their total fellowship income, or they may receive no summary form at all. visit the npa website for more details. tax resources for international postdocs - please see the hio website faq section: tax filing information from hio: https://www.hio.harvard.edu/tax-filing-information for international postdocs, make sure to visit the harvard international office's website on taxes and social security: http://www.hio.harvard.edu/taxes-social-security environmental, health and safety training all laboratory personnel (including postdocs) are required to take environmental, health and safety training courses to include common regulatory training requirements for their job category and additional training specific to the type of work they will be performing in the lab. postdoctoral fellows must complete the mandatory training prior to receiving a harvard id card as is outlined in the risk assessment form. the eh&s training management system was replaced in july 2016 with the harvard training portal. this university-level training portal includes all your prior eh&s and other harvard training history, and enables you to keep track of your training assignments, take web-based trainings and register for classroom trainings. for more details and faqs, see http://ehs.harvard.edu/training, annual refresher courses: postdocs are required to take annual refresher training courses in blood borne pathogens and hazardous waste. these courses may be can be accessed through the eh&s harvard training portal website. responsible conduct of research (rcr) training if you are a postdoctoral fellow engaged in research at harvard medical school you are required to participate in rcr training. the division of medical ethics within harvard medical school holds a course annually. more details can be found on the website: http://bioethics.hms.harvard.edu/rcr-responsible-conduct-research. the website also provides information about other rcr courses in the area. send an e-mail to rcr@hms.harvard.edu to be notified when the next series of sessions is scheduled., postdoc curriculum research info finding funding career info work & life benefits & support community calendars open quad postdoc positions,    follow us on twitter or join our linkedin group to view job opportunites we receive from our partners and colleagues outside of the hms community., , hms/hsdm office for postdoctoral fellows | gordon hall of medicine, room 006 | 25 shattuck street, boston, ma 02115 | postdoc.hms.harvard.edu][guidelines & policies, resources for postdocs, follow us!]guidelines & policies | hms/hsdm office for postdoctoral fellows[ , harvard medical school / harvard school of dental medicine, office for, postdoctoral, fellows, *this section is always being updated. please check with your department administrator or contact the office if you cannot find something.* , postdoc office annual report, benefits, benefits are handled upon exit/termination,  (with exception of vacation payout and harvard-sponsored retirement). , harvard office for gender equity - policies on sexual and gender-based harassment, statement of mutual respect and public discourse at harvard medical school, research and professional integrity, harvard university policy on drugs and alcohol in the workplace, academic appointment, document keyword search , vacation and holidays, sick days, leaves of absence maternity leave, parental leave, paid family medical leave (pfml) , postdoctoral fellows (internal and external working on harvard research, leave of absence, hms/hsdm salary/stipend levels, determining salary level (pgy), full-time training, harvard employees working outside massachusetts - tax withholding and remote work during the covid-19 public health emergency, tax reporting of fellowship income, tax resources for international postdocs - please see the hio website faq section: tax filing information from hio: https://www.hio.harvard.edu/tax-filing-information, for international postdocs, environmental, health and safety training, responsible conduct of research (rcr) training, postdoc curriculum research info, finding funding, career info, work & life, benefits & support, community calendars, open quad postdoc positions][main menu, utility menu, search, events, orientation, getting started, tools & resources, guidelines & policies, faq, covid-19 hms & harvard info, diversity, inclusion, & community values, hms postdoc fellowship programs, harvard & hms affiliate postdoc offices, current international postdocs, non-opf events & announcements, non-quad job opportunities, contact us]