[jane addams was a suffragist, social activist, and author., susan b. anthony was a suffragist, abolitionist, and activist for women's rights., carrie chapman catt was a suffragist, peace activist, and co-founder of the league of women voters., septima poinsette clark was an educator and civil rights activist. she worked to register african american voters., frederick douglass, formerly enslaved, was an abolitionist, suffragist, publisher, and author., wilhelmina kekelaokalaninui widemann dowsett was a suffragist in hawai'i., the first act of the just-formed territorial legislature of alaska in 1913 was to grant women the vote., dolores huerta is a labor organizer; co-founder of the national farm workers association; and works to register agricultural workers to vote, helen keller was a civil rights activist, women's rights activist, author, and speaker., dr. mabel lee advocated for women's suffrage for years, even though as a chinese immigrant, she was unable to vote., nina otero-warren was a suffragist, author, business woman, and homesteader., alice paul was a suffragist and activist for women's rights., jeannette rankin was a suffragist, and the first woman elected to us congress., tye leung schulze was the first chinese person in the united states (and perhaps in the world) to vote in a democratic election., rev. dr. anna howard shaw was an activist, physician, clergy, and president of the national american women's suffrage association., one of the driving forces behind the first women's rights convention in 1848, mary church terrell was a suffragist, activist, businesswoman, and educator., sojourner truth was born isabella baumfree. she was an abolitionist, activist, and supporter of women's rights including suffrage., dr. mary walker was a physician, women's suffrage advocate, civil war veteran, and the only woman to receive the us medal of honor., ida b. wells-barnett was an anti-lynching advocate, author, suffragist, founder of the alpha suffrage club in chicago., zitkala-ša was a writer, political activist, teacher, intellectual, and musician. she fought for native american suffrage., explore the list below to learn about more suffragists., sort by: relevance recently updated title, show 10 40 per page, last updated: august 10, 2020, download the official nps app before your next visit, ][open menu, explore this park, 20 suffragists to know for 2020, jane addams, susan b. anthony, carrie chapman catt, septima poinsette clark, frederick douglass, wilhelmina kekelaokalaninui dowsett, first territorial legislature of alaska, dolores huerta, helen keller, dr. mabel ping-hua lee, adelina "nina" otero-warren, dr. alice paul, jeannette rankin, tye leung schulze, rev. dr. anna howard shaw, elizabeth cady stanton, mary church terrell, sojourner truth, dr. mary edwards walker, ida b. wells-barnett, zitkala-ša, where's my favorite suffragist?, more suffragists, tools]20 suffragists to know for 2020 - women's history (u.s. national park service)[][skip to global nps navigation, skip to main content, skip to footer, explore this park, explore this park, jane addams jane addams was a suffragist, social activist, and author., susan b. anthony susan b. anthony was a suffragist, abolitionist, and activist for women's rights., carrie chapman catt carrie chapman catt was a suffragist, peace activist, and co-founder of the league of women voters., septima poinsette clark septima poinsette clark was an educator and civil rights activist. she worked to register african american voters., frederick douglass frederick douglass, formerly enslaved, was an abolitionist, suffragist, publisher, and author., wilhelmina kekelaokalaninui dowsett wilhelmina kekelaokalaninui widemann dowsett was a suffragist in hawai'i., first territorial legislature of alaska the first act of the just-formed territorial legislature of alaska in 1913 was to grant women the vote., dolores huerta dolores huerta is a labor organizer; co-founder of the national farm workers association; and works to register agricultural workers to vote, helen keller helen keller was a civil rights activist, women's rights activist, author, and speaker., dr. mabel ping-hua lee dr. mabel lee advocated for women's suffrage for years, even though as a chinese immigrant, she was unable to vote., adelina "nina" otero-warren nina otero-warren was a suffragist, author, business woman, and homesteader., dr. alice paul alice paul was a suffragist and activist for women's rights., jeannette rankin jeannette rankin was a suffragist, and the first woman elected to us congress., tye leung schulze tye leung schulze was the first chinese person in the united states (and perhaps in the world) to vote in a democratic election., rev. dr. anna howard shaw rev. dr. anna howard shaw was an activist, physician, clergy, and president of the national american women's suffrage association., elizabeth cady stanton one of the driving forces behind the first women's rights convention in 1848, mary church terrell mary church terrell was a suffragist, activist, businesswoman, and educator., sojourner truth sojourner truth was born isabella baumfree. she was an abolitionist, activist, and supporter of women's rights including suffrage., dr. mary edwards walker dr. mary walker was a physician, women's suffrage advocate, civil war veteran, and the only woman to receive the us medal of honor., ida b. wells-barnett ida b. wells-barnett was an anti-lynching advocate, author, suffragist, founder of the alpha suffrage club in chicago., zitkala-ša zitkala-ša was a writer, political activist, teacher, intellectual, and musician. she fought for native american suffrage., where's my favorite suffragist? explore the list below to learn about more suffragists., site index, accessibility, privacy policy, foia, notices, disclaimer, faq, no fear act, contact the national park service, usa.gov, facebook facebook facebook, youtube youtube youtube, twitter twitter twitter, instagram instagram instagram, flickr flickr flickr]