[ learn how to change security and privacy settings with step-by-step visual guides., if your phone uses google play services, you can manage your google apps and services in google settings., depending on your phone, either:, , under "services on this device" scroll down and tap the service you want. for example:, if an app isn't made by google, you can delete its app data from your google account. on your main google settings screen, tap more  clear app data. learn how to free up space., you can send information to google about how you use your device and how it's working. sharing this information can help google improve android for everyone. on your main google settings screen, tap more  usage & diagnostics. learn about sharing information to improve android.][manage your google settings, open google settings, manage your google settings, account, services, clear app data, usage & diagnostics, google activity controls]manage your google settings - google account help[important:, google, manage your, google account, home, personal info, data & personalization, security, people & sharing, payments & subscriptions, ads, connected apps, device phone number, google fit, location, search, assistant & voice, find my device, clear app data, usage & diagnostics][help center, community, google account, privacy policy, terms of service, submit feedback, google activity controls, manage your google settings, open your phone's settings app  google., open a separate app called google settings ., under "account," tap manage your google account., across the top, scroll to the tab you want., tap a tab: ​​home personal info update basic info in your google account. learn how to change your name and other info. data & personalization see your data, activity, and preferences that can make google services more useful to you. learn how to choose what activity gets saved. security use settings and recommendations to help keep your account secure. learn how to make your account more secure. people & sharing manage your interactions and the info you show on google services. learn how to choose what info you share. payments & subscriptions see your payment methods, transactions, recurring payments, and reservations. learn about managing purchases., ​​home, personal info update basic info in your google account. learn how to change your name and other info., data & personalization see your data, activity, and preferences that can make google services more useful to you. learn how to choose what activity gets saved., security use settings and recommendations to help keep your account secure. learn how to make your account more secure., people & sharing manage your interactions and the info you show on google services. learn how to choose what info you share., payments & subscriptions see your payment methods, transactions, recurring payments, and reservations. learn about managing purchases., ads opt out of ad personalization or reset your advertising id. learn how to control the ads you see., connected apps manage apps connected to your google account, like those with google sign-in permissions. learn about sharing your data with apps., device phone number manage how google uses your phone's number to help people connect with you. learn how to change how your phone's number gets verified., google fit see or disconnect apps and phones connected to google fit. learn how to manage google fit settings., location manage location settings. learn how to manage location history., search, assistant & voice manage settings and preferences for your google assistant and google app. learn about your google assistant., find my device                                                                                                                                                                      manage settings for remotely locating and erasing a lost phone. learn how to find, lock, or erase a lost phone., find, control & delete the info in your google account, control what activity gets saved to your account, view & control activity in your account, delete your activity, manage audio recordings in your web & app activity, control what others see about you across google services, share usage & diagnostics information with google, find & control your web & app activity, manage your google settings, control the ads you see, ©2022 google, privacy policy, terms of service]