[, at kiz school, we offer the most practical tools and materials for teaching english to young learners. these materials will serve school teachers and homeschoolers well as they help kids learn english in a fast and fun way., kiz school is an online english program for kids which provides: video tutorials, ppt, interactive games & quizzes, printable pdf worksheets & flashcards, among others. you don't need to be a professional teacher to use our materials.it is an effective, affordable private and public teaching solution for parents and schools., for computer-assisted teaching and learning with interactive whiteboards, you have got our ppt lessons & video tutorials. these lessons on powerpoint and video will serve the experienced and inexperienced teachers well. they are designed to teach grammar, vocabulary, sentence patterns and reading, with little stress. our visually appealing ppts/videos help to vividly present the language and also optimize memory of new language. the lessons are accompanied by a printable lesson plan. free sample ppt: - colors lesson - fruits lesson - jobs lesson, every lesson comes with interactive games and exercises for further practice of the language presented in the video tutorials. these exercises are carefully designed to appeal to all learning types - audio, visual & kinesthetic learners especially. for classroom teaching we have provided lots of games in the supplementary materials area. samples: flip cards game, labeling exercise, catch-match, ebook reading, there are over 600 high quality printable pdf to print for use in your lessons. print and take to class for use with the lessons. there are crossword puzzles, word searches, board games,quizzes, card games, text mazes and more for reading, vocabulary, grammar and the teaching of key english expressions. samples: body parts, phonics, text maze, handwriting, every unit comes with a set of flashcards to go with it. the flashcards are in pdf format and are delivered in small and large sizes. the flashcards go hand in hand with the topics . samples: body parts small flashcards, body parts big flashcards, become a member - grab it now!, your esl/efl young learners deserve this! kiz school offers unbeatable content., the most complete set of resources for esl kids ever!,  at kiz school, we understand that your privacy is very important. we do not pass on to third parties any identifiable information about our users. if you submit your email address, it will never be given or sold to a third party., kiz school has an opt-in newsletter, which is delivered by email. users who subscribe to this newsletter can cancel the registration from any main page of www.kizschool.com or by following instructions which are sent to all new subscribers by email., if you have any questions regarding your privacy on this website, please contact us at kizschoolmember at gmail.com (change the at to @ - it is an antispam technique), freddies ville: english for kids, animated videos for learning english, games & worksheets, lang: _ _ _, members login, , ,  , testimonials the kids are doing great...i have four classes of 16 kids from ages 4-12, and they are progressing great. you truly have developed a wonderful course. thanks for all your help, chris, i'm finding the lessons extremely useful.  i am really pleased.  i did not expect the support to be this available.  this is a very important aspect of using the material for me. thank you for the explanation on how to play the game.  i understand it now. mary, i am surprised and happy with your work. congratulations. it will help me a lot. i hope i can share your site with a lot of fathers. antonio, i like your exercises. they are colourful and interesting maria, how difficult would it be to change this fantastic program and adapt your lesson in a language other than english? theresa, i have been looking for this type of website for 4 years. thank you so much!!! anonymous,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , , product of kizschool.com · about us - terms copyright kisito futonge, . contact us][teaching english to kids just got easier!, school & family licenses, please contact us- click here, privacy policy]english lessons for kids - kizschool.com[practical, school teachers, homeschoolers, kids learn english, farm animals, prepositions shoppinglesson from kizschool.com, kiz school, ppt, interactive games & quizzes, printable pdf worksheets & flashcards, grammar, vocabulary, sentence patterns, reading, visually appealing ppts/videos, optimize memory, printable lesson plan, free sample ppt: - colors lesson, - fruits lesson, - jobs lesson, interactive games, exercises, audio, visual & kinesthetic learners, samples: flip cards game, labeling exercise, catch-match, ,, ebook reading, 600 high quality printable pdf, crossword puzzles, word searches, board games, quizzes, card games, text mazes, samples:, body parts, phonics, text maze, handwriting, samples:, body parts small flashcards, ,, body parts big flashcards, each unit has a self-grading test, 60 fully developed units, hi-energy revision games, placement & level tests -, revision games for all levels, printable crossword puzzles, powerpoint presentations & ppt games, 1600 printable worksheets, printable flashcards by topic, phonics printables & interactive content, interactive placement tests to judge level of learners, classroom interactive games, kiz school, www.kizschool.com, kizschoolmember at gmail.com, external links, freddies ville: english for kids, chris, mary, antonio, maria, theresa][home, lessons, tour, join now!, faq, members, english lesson video tutorials & lesson plan - we do the hard work, each unit has a self-grading test - test kids after each unit, 60 fully developed units -with interactive and printable resources - everything you need!, hi-energy revision games for all units, placement & level tests - test students before and after each level, revision games for all levels - fun and effective!, interactive games, puzzles & tests - extend the practice with more fun games, printable crossword puzzles - they are perfect supplementary materials for our course, powerpoint presentations & ppt games - more engaging lessons set you apart!, 1600 printable worksheets- most complete set of resources, printable flashcards by topic - a set of high quality flashcards for all units, phonics printables & interactive content - 167 phonics worksheets!, interactive placement tests to judge level of learners - determine students' levels, classroom interactive games - your kids deserve the best! practice and play!, tell us how many people will be using these materials, how long you want access for., english lesson videos, games, quizzes & puzzles, worksheets, phonics materials, flashcards, links]