[login password, fredisa learns is a progressive english language (esl/efl/eal) program for kids. it begins from an absolute beginner to early intermediate level. children develop core knowledge in the use of english language vocabulary, grammar, spelling and sentence structures. our english lessons for kids are immersive and feature:, it is a comprehensive solution for teachers and educators who seek a digital english language program to support blended learning efforts in schools or at home. why not explore our full range of course materials and english lessons, then sign up?, , this is the absolute beginner basic english course for esl kids., , this is the second absolute beginner basic english course for esl children., , this is a beginner english course for esl kids who have basic skills already., , this is a second beginner children's english course that builds on basic skills., , this is an elementary english course for children with beginner esl/efl skills., , this is a transitional elementary to pre-intermediate english course for esl kids., , this is a pre-intermediate english course for esl children., , this is a pre-intermediate and intermediate english course for esl kids., , this is an intermediate english course for children., , , we offer a comprehensive set of esl teaching resources to support blended learning in classrooms. teachers and educators will find ready-to-go powerpoint lesson plans, printable worksheets and flashcards which pair very well with our online program. simply click on a theme and find all resources to download and use., , our program features well-crafted ppt lessons and ppt flashcards which are an essential resource for classroom teaching. download and use them for your classroom teaching., , our worksheets are very well aligned with our courses. they are useful for offline classroom teaching and practice. teachers may also assign them as homework handouts. download now, , print and use our flashcards for classroom games and face-to-face teaching. flashcards are vital to all kids esl lessons and we have you covered. begin downloading and using them today., hi. i am glad to know this very fun english program., i am very keen on this and hope to get a lot of information in teaching my kids., it is good to see my son truly engaging with the course., your programme helped us greatly during the covid-19 lockdown here in barcelona., this is an excellent online english programme. do you have course books for schools?, , find many fun games for children to learn english. there are word games, sentence games, vocabulary puzzles and more to learn new english words, grammar and sentence patterns., , free worksheets for reviewing vocabulary, grammar and sentences. there are handwriting worksheets, crossword puzzles, matching exercises, gap fill and text maze reading exercises., , find catchy kid's english songs for your lessons. the songs are great for reviewing the lessons and help children learn key sentence structures and new words quickly. more songs coming soon., fredisalearns is a product of eduterials limited, a hong kong based education company. we are the same team that authored kizphonics.com, eslgamesplus.com and others, used by millions of people across the globe. if you have ever used any of these resources, you know our mission is first and foremost to provide great content for our users. our team of skilled educators come from the us, uk, south africa, hong kong and other nationalities. this varied mix of educators help create materials that appeal to global audiences., , kizphonics.com is a progressive literacy program for kids, featuring an eclectic mix of worksheets, games, videos, flashcards and much more., comments or questions are welcome., eduterials limited rm 22b, 22/f, kiu yin commercial bldg 361-363 lockhart rd wanchai, hong kong, , privacy policy we take our users' privacy very seriously! at fredisalearns.com, we do not pass onto third parties any identifiable information about our users.your email address and personal information is never shared with a third party., this site uses cookies. by continuing to browse the site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies., we may request cookies to be set on your device. we use cookies to let us know when you visit our websites, how you interact with us, to enrich your user experience, and to customize your relationship with our website., click on the different category headings to find out more. you can also change some of your preferences. note that blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience on our websites and the services we are able to offer., these cookies are strictly necessary to provide you with services available through our website and to use some of its features., because these cookies are strictly necessary to deliver the website, refuseing them will have impact how our site functions. you always can block or delete cookies by changing your browser settings and force blocking all cookies on this website. but this will always prompt you to accept/refuse cookies when revisiting our site., we fully respect if you want to refuse cookies but to avoid asking you again and again kindly allow us to store a cookie for that. you are free to opt out any time or opt in for other cookies to get a better experience. if you refuse cookies we will remove all set cookies in our domain., we provide you with a list of stored cookies on your computer in our domain so you can check what we stored. due to security reasons we are not able to show or modify cookies from other domains. you can check these in your browser security settings., we also use different external services like google webfonts, google maps, and external video providers. since these providers may collect personal data like your ip address we allow you to block them here. please be aware that this might heavily reduce the functionality and appearance of our site. changes will take effect once you reload the page., google webfont settings:, google map settings:, google recaptcha settings:, vimeo and youtube video embeds:][login, immersive english lessons for kids, esl lessons for kids, trending esl lessons, popular lessons, unit 7 : what fruit is this? kids english lesson, unit 7 : countries attractions english lesson, unit 9 – weather esl kids lesson, unit 8: telling time – o’clock – free english lesson, unit 1 – we visited a zoo – free esl kids past tense lesson, unit 8 : emergencies esl kids lesson, unit 8 – telling time – o’clock free game, popular lessons, unit 9 : family – kids english lesson, unit 6 – natural disasters english for kids, unit 1 – classroom commands free video, unit 6 – toys esl kids lesson, unit 8 : body parts – esl kids lesson, unit 2 – world food free video for kids, unit 1 – we visited a zoo free video, popular lessons, unit 7 – fruits english lesson, unit 3 : what’s your name? kids english lesson, unit 10 – after a vacation – esl kids lesson – past tense, unit 4 : things in the house english lesson, unit 2 – world food esl kids lesson, unit 1 : animal comparisons free quiz, unit 1 – actions – dolphin show free video, classroom teaching resources, powerpoint, worksheets, flashcards, testimonials, free resources, english games for kids, classroom teaching resources, children's english songs, about, recommended course, contact / support, feedback, our location, languages, cookie and privacy settings]learning english online for kids, esl kids | fredisalearns[, menu, action powerpoint lessons, clothes powerpoint lessons, vegetables powerpoint lessons, get more powerpoints>>>, action printable worksheets, clothes printable worksheets, vegetables printable worksheets, get more worksheets>>>, action printable flashcards, clothes printable flashcards, vegetables printable flashcards, get more flashcards>>>, dao (vietnam, ho chi minh), isabela (brazil, sao paulo), pablo (spain, barcelona), diana diaz (colombia, bogota), word games, sentence games, about me' games, action verbs games , more games here>>>, action verbs worksheets, farm animals worksheets, more teaching resources here>>>, farm animals song, zoo animals song, more esl kids songs, privacy policy][facebook, youtube, twitter, home, courses starter 1 english starter 2 english level 1 english level 2 english level 3 english level 4 english level 5 english level 6 english level 7 english teaching resources, starter 1 english, starter 2 english, level 1 english, level 2 english, level 3 english, level 4 english, level 5 english, level 6 english, level 7 english, teaching resources, free lessons, tour watch this! how to add group how to study how to register faqs, watch this!, how to add group, how to study, how to register, faqs, sign up, study here, search, menu menu, , , , , animated lesson videos, fun games to practice, interactive tests to assess, printable worksheets, course progress tracker, mobile-friendly activities, teaching materials - lots!, popular lessons january 16, 2016 unit 7 : what fruit is this? kids english lesson january 19, 2016 unit 7 : countries attractions english lesson january 18, 2016 unit 9 – weather esl kids lesson january 31, 2016 unit 8: telling time – o’clock – free english lesson february 24, 2016 unit 1 – we visited a zoo – free esl kids past tense lesson january 19, 2016 unit 8 : emergencies esl kids lesson january 30, 2016 unit 8 – telling time – o’clock free game, popular lessons january 16, 2016 unit 9 : family – kids english lesson april 27, 2016 unit 6 – natural disasters english for kids january 30, 2016 unit 1 – classroom commands free video january 16, 2016 unit 6 – toys esl kids lesson january 16, 2016 unit 8 : body parts – esl kids lesson april 27, 2016 unit 2 – world food free video for kids february 24, 2016 unit 1 – we visited a zoo free video, popular lessons january 17, 2016 unit 7 – fruits english lesson january 16, 2016 unit 3 : what’s your name? kids english lesson february 24, 2016 unit 10 – after a vacation – esl kids lesson – past tense january 18, 2016 unit 4 : things in the house english lesson april 27, 2016 unit 2 – world food esl kids lesson january 31, 2016 unit 1 : animal comparisons free quiz january 30, 2016 unit 1 – actions – dolphin show free video, action powerpoint lessons, clothes powerpoint lessons, vegetables powerpoint lessons, get more powerpoints>>>, action printable worksheets, clothes printable worksheets, vegetables printable worksheets, get more worksheets>>>, action printable flashcards, clothes printable flashcards, vegetables printable flashcards, get more flashcards>>>, 'about me' games, action verbs games , more games here>>>, action verbs worksheets, farm animals worksheets, more teaching resources here>>>, farm animals song, zoo animals song, more esl kids songs, spanish, russian, turkish, polish, italian, korean, chinese, japanese, french, german, portuguese, thai, arabic]