[ , to teach and practice spoken english, we offer commonly used english expressions for daily communication, esl conversation & dialogues. we also provide pronunciation materials which help in the teaching and learning of a standard english pronunciation.we provide exercises to study or teach them, like mp3 audio downloads, printable worksheets and self-grading exercises., from learning these expressions, students will be able to use very important communication phrases and expressions which native speakers normally use in english conversations or dialogues. also, learning these expressions will help to make students sound more natural and polite. click on an expression to listen to how it is used. you will be taken to a page with an mp3 audio and written text., teaching and learning of pronunciation has been made easy by our partners. we offer printable phonetic exercises and self-study exercises for students., past simple, past progressive present perfect tense games, conjunctions games, passive vs. active voice games, articles (the/a/an) - definite/indefinite games, modals / modal verbs games, prepositions & conjunctions games, conditionals games, gerunds (-ing) and infinitives (to) games, adjectives and adverbs games, assorted grammar games, newest items : esl games -board, card & ppt games - click on product to tour., ,  , , more dictionaries and more tools online>>>, ,  , we offer several esl/efl e-books that are hot on most esl/efl/english educators' lists. the materials are easy to download and use. they help teachers in the lesson plans and teaching., » read more..., our esl store puts power english teaching and learning materials within your grasp. there are downloadable e-books, powerpoint lessons, phonetic courseware and lesson plan materials of all kind. find out more>>>., » read more..., this english for kids course e-books has over 300 exercises. they include: printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations, mp3 audio and all the tools you need to deliver a fantastic lesson to esl/efl young learners. find out more>>>., » read more..., english-4kids.com englishmedialab.com esltower.com esl-galaxy.com download-esl.com chinesefortravel.com these sites offer tons of materials for english language teachers and learners.][speaking - learn spoken english, esl/efl/esol resources- map, find english materials, esl courseware, language store, young learners, esl partners]english learning online, esl conversation, speaking, spoken english expressions[english expressions, daily communication, esl conversation & dialogues., mp3 audio downloads, printable worksheets, self-grading exercises, esl interactive grammar games, past simple, past progressive present perfect tense games, verb tenses - past simple, future, present perfect, verb forms - name 5 forms of the verb to sing - sing, sings, sang, singing and sung - 10 points, conjunctions games, passive vs. active voice games, articles (the/a/an) - definite/indefinite games, modals / modal verbs games, prepositions & conjunctions games, conditionals games, gerunds (-ing) and infinitives (to) games, adjectives and adverbs games, word building quiz games - adjectives opposites, synonyms, prefixes, suffixes, extreme adjectives, assorted grammar games, newest items : esl games -board, card & ppt games - click on product to tour., dictionaries online, more dictionaries and more tools online>>>, victoria y., kisito f., sitemap][» home, » vocabulary, » speaking, » grammar, » listening, » business, agreeing and disagreeing expressions, apologizing- ways to say you are sorry, excuse me! expressions used when bothering someone, focusing attention expressions, getting to know you expressions, goodbye expressions, greetings expressions, interrupting someone- learn how to politely interrupt conversation, paraphrasing - trying to express in your own words, permission - asking for permission, phone expressions, thanks! - expressing gratitude, taking turns - learn how to take turns, thinking time/fillers - learn how to buy time to think before speaking, weekend - talk about what you did over the weekend, there are grammar games like : snakes and ladders grammar games, basketall, football, hangman, wheel of fortune, tv games and more to help practice grammar.present tenses games present progressive action verbs - fling the teacher game present tenses hangman game present progressive tense - hangman game present progressive tense - spelling game present simple vs. present progressive - snakes & ladders game present simple vs. present progressive - hangman game action verbs picrture - catching game : action verbs sentences & picture - catching game daily routines sequencing exercise - sequencing game exercise daily routines memory game - matching game past simple, past progressive present perfect tense games present vs. past tenses - football game present vs. past tenses - walk the plank game past simple snakes and ladders - regular/irregular verbs - snakes and ladders past progressive vs. past simple tenses - snakes and ladders game past simple - spelling game present perfect progressive - matching game irregular past tense - spelling game present tenses vs. past tenses - classification game past simple betting - betting jeopardy tv style game past progressive vs. past simple tense - betting jeopardy tv game past simple tense - sequencing reading game/exercise present perfect vs. past simple tense - spin the wheel game present perfect & past participle - hangman game english tenses exercise - matching game formulaic expressions - snakes and ladders games intermediate level review snakes and ladders game irregular past simple verb tense quiz show -jeopardy quiz verb tenses - past simple, future, present perfect - jeopardy classroom game verb forms - name 5 forms of the verb to sing - sing, sings, sang, singing and sung - 10 points conjunctions games mixed conjunctions wheel of fortune game passive vs. active voice games active vs. passive voice - basketball game correct passive voice - football game articles (the/a/an) - definite/indefinite games definite article (the) or indefinite article (a) - basketball game articles - "a, an, the" - snakes and ladders game modals / modal verbs games modals - can, must, would, have to - basketball game mixed modals- snakes and ladders game prepositions & conjunctions games adjectives and nouns followed by prepositions - fling the teacher game verbs followed by prepositions - basketball game prepositions game - football game prepositions of place - in, under, on at - audio memory game prepositions of time- since, during, in - walk the plank game conjunctions, if, when, although, in case, unless - duel game prepositions game - for elementary to pre-intermediate levels - spin off game prepositions of place - in, on, under, behind, in front of, next to conditionals games conditionals practice - first, second, and third conditionals- fling the teacher game conditionals billionaire game - first, second, third and zero conditionals practice games gerunds (-ing) and infinitives (to) games gerunds and infinitives - ing or to - duel game adjectives and adverbs games adjectives and opposites - duel game adjectives hangman game adverbs of frequency hangman game adverbs to describe verbs- ending with - ly- -hangman game adjectives opposite - hangman game word building quiz games - adjectives opposites, synonyms, prefixes, suffixes, extreme adjectives assorted grammar games word groups - walk the plank game about you - sentence game festivals, dates and ordinal numbers - sentence game greetings sentence game hello. hi - greetings audio matching game how many - sentence game singular plurals of nouns - billionaire game newest items : esl games -board, card & ppt games - click on product to tour., present progressive action verbs - fling the teacher game, present tenses hangman game, present progressive tense - hangman game, present progressive tense - spelling game, present simple vs. present progressive - snakes & ladders game, present simple vs. present progressive - hangman game, action verbs picrture - catching game :, action verbs sentences & picture - catching game, daily routines sequencing exercise - sequencing game exercise, daily routines memory game - matching game, present vs. past tenses - football game, present vs. past tenses - walk the plank game, past simple snakes and ladders - regular/irregular verbs - snakes and ladders, past progressive vs. past simple tenses - snakes and ladders game, past simple - spelling game, present perfect progressive - matching game, irregular past tense - spelling game, present tenses vs. past tenses - classification game, past simple betting - betting jeopardy tv style game, past progressive vs. past simple tense - betting jeopardy tv game, past simple tense - sequencing reading game/exercise, present perfect vs. past simple tense - spin the wheel game, present perfect & past participle - hangman game, english tenses exercise - matching game, formulaic expressions - snakes and ladders games, intermediate level review snakes and ladders game, irregular past simple verb tense quiz show -jeopardy quiz, verb tenses - past simple, future, present perfect - jeopardy classroom game, verb forms - name 5 forms of the verb to sing - sing, sings, sang, singing and sung - 10 points, mixed conjunctions wheel of fortune game, active vs. passive voice - basketball game, correct passive voice - football game, definite article (the) or indefinite article (a) - basketball game, articles - "a, an, the" - snakes and ladders game, modals - can, must, would, have to - basketball game, mixed modals- snakes and ladders game, adjectives and nouns followed by prepositions - fling the teacher game, verbs followed by prepositions - basketball game, prepositions game - football game, prepositions of place - in, under, on at - audio memory game, prepositions of time- since, during, in - walk the plank game, conjunctions, if, when, although, in case, unless - duel game, prepositions game - for elementary to pre-intermediate levels - spin off game, prepositions of place - in, on, under, behind, in front of, next to, conditionals practice - first, second, and third conditionals- fling the teacher game, conditionals billionaire game - first, second, third and zero conditionals practice games, gerunds and infinitives - ing or to - duel game, adjectives and opposites - duel game, adjectives hangman game, adverbs of frequency hangman game, adverbs to describe verbs- ending with - ly- -hangman game, adjectives opposite - hangman game, word building quiz games - adjectives opposites, synonyms, prefixes, suffixes, extreme adjectives, word groups - walk the plank game, about you - sentence game, festivals, dates and ordinal numbers - sentence game, greetings sentence game, hello. hi - greetings audio matching game, how many - sentence game, singular plurals of nouns - billionaire game, dictionaries online   more dictionaries and more tools online>>>, home, site search, web community, members area, shopping area]