[women in america first collectively organized in 1848 at the first women’s rights convention in seneca falls, ny to fight for suffrage (or voting rights). organized by elizabeth cady stanton and lucretia mott, the convention sparked the women’s suffrage movement. not everyone followed the same path in fighting for women's equal access to the vote, and the history of the suffrage movement is one of disagreements as well as cooperation., while women were not always united in their goals, and the fight for women’s suffrage was complex and interwoven with issues of civil and political rights for all americans, the efforts of women like ida b. wells and alice paul led to the passage of the 19th amendment. signed into law on august 26, 1920, the passage of the 19th amendment was the result of decades of work by tens of thousands across the country who worked for change., use this site to discover some of the stories of women and men who fought for women’s suffrage rights. you’ll also find resources for children and adults, including essays on suffrage, storymaps, and lesson plans., this series of 14 articles gives a comprehensive history of woman suffrage and the 19th amendment across america., use this crowd-sourced tool to view connections between suffrage activists, explore associated historic sites, and read archival documents., these 1-minute videos highlight suffrage subjects and heroes who made woman suffrage a reality—in 1920 and beyond., a journey back in time... join lottie and isaiah two very modern 5th graders, as they meet heroes of the movement for women’s right to vote., throughout the fight for women’s right to vote, generations of diverse activists demanded full access to the ballot box. meet them here., susan b. anthony and frederick douglass. great allies? yes. and at times, great adversaries., a quick overview of woman's suffrage and the 19th amendment., read about 20 suffragists and the work they did to get women the ballot, many symbols were used during the campaign for women's suffrage. here you will find some of their meanings and uses., read radical stories of women's fight for the vote written by a host of subject matter experts. bet you learn something new!, find out how the 15th and 19th suffrage amendments are deeply connected in our history of civil rights in the united states, express your creative side with kids activities relating to women's history and women's suffrage., follow the race to the ratification of the 19th amendment. as each state ratifies (or rejects) the amendment, find their stories here., explore the state histories of the ratification of the 19th amendment and women's right to vote., an extended timeline of the fight for women's suffrage in the united states, from margaret brent to belmont-paul women's equality, explore the ratification of the 19th amendment throughout the us, from the first state in 1920 to the last state in 1984 (plus 2!), a collection of lesson plans for teachers to engage with the 19th amendment and woman suffrage with their students., when a small group of women gathered in seneca falls, ny in 1848, they galvanized a movement for women's suffrage., this series explores the 1919 “prison special” tour. suffragists traveled the us by train bringing attention to the fight for voting rights., sort by: relevance recently updated title, show 10 40 per page, last updated: june 7, 2021, download the official nps app before your next visit, ][open menu, explore this park, 19th amendment, women's access to the vote across the us, explore suffrage stories and connections, suffrage in 60 seconds, 19th amendment podcasts, the magic sash, and nothing less, the agitators, readings, resources, and more, the 19th amendment: a crash course, 20 suffragists to know for 2020, symbols of the women's suffrage movement, on their shoulders, the 15th and 19th amendments, kids activities, the state-by-state race to ratification, 19th amendment by state, expanded us women's suffrage timeline, storymap: the ratification of the 19th, teach it!, the early suffrage movement, series: the suffrage "prison special", more 19th amendment resources!, tools]19th amendment - women's history (u.s. national park service)[][skip to global nps navigation, skip to main content, skip to footer, explore this park, explore this park, podcast the magic sash a journey back in time... join lottie and isaiah two very modern 5th graders, as they meet heroes of the movement for women’s right to vote., podcast and nothing less throughout the fight for women’s right to vote, generations of diverse activists demanded full access to the ballot box. meet them here., podcast the agitators susan b. anthony and frederick douglass. great allies? yes. and at times, great adversaries., the 19th amendment: a crash course a quick overview of woman's suffrage and the 19th amendment., people 20 suffragists to know for 2020 read about 20 suffragists and the work they did to get women the ballot, symbols of the women's suffrage movement many symbols were used during the campaign for women's suffrage. here you will find some of their meanings and uses., on their shoulders read radical stories of women's fight for the vote written by a host of subject matter experts. bet you learn something new!, the 15th and 19th amendments find out how the 15th and 19th suffrage amendments are deeply connected in our history of civil rights in the united states, kids activities express your creative side with kids activities relating to women's history and women's suffrage., follow along in real time the state-by-state race to ratification follow the race to the ratification of the 19th amendment. as each state ratifies (or rejects) the amendment, find their stories here., 19th amendment by state explore the state histories of the ratification of the 19th amendment and women's right to vote., from 1648 through 2016 expanded us women's suffrage timeline an extended timeline of the fight for women's suffrage in the united states, from margaret brent to belmont-paul women's equality, across the us storymap: the ratification of the 19th explore the ratification of the 19th amendment throughout the us, from the first state in 1920 to the last state in 1984 (plus 2!), lesson plans for teaching the 19th teach it! a collection of lesson plans for teachers to engage with the 19th amendment and woman suffrage with their students., the early suffrage movement when a small group of women gathered in seneca falls, ny in 1848, they galvanized a movement for women's suffrage., series: the suffrage "prison special" this series explores the 1919 “prison special” tour. suffragists traveled the us by train bringing attention to the fight for voting rights., site index, accessibility, privacy policy, foia, notices, disclaimer, faq, no fear act, contact the national park service, usa.gov, facebook facebook facebook, youtube youtube youtube, twitter twitter twitter, instagram instagram instagram, flickr flickr flickr]