[pronunciation listening: practice english pronunciation by listening to tongue twisters. english mp3 tongue twisters are a great way to improve pronunciation., online high level listening: listen to topic based recordings and practice listening to english with a variety of standard accents., audio books for kids: listen to to mp3 and follow with our audio books., , audio books: english lessons on mp3 audio. included in every audio book.this audio book is full of lessons for beginners to pre-intermediate levels of students. there are over 50 english lessons in our books with an mp3 file attached to each lesson. these are great readers for beginners. check this out, download these free samples- lesson - clothes, lesson- weather . open the pdf document and you will find the mp3 file attachment at the bottom of the book., , download esl audio book lesson- shapes- (the audio file is inside the pdf document.), download esl audio book lesson - olympic sports ( the audio file is inside the pdf document at the bottom), get over 50 well planned english lessons in one audio esl e-book. over 50 lessons and mp3 file attachments. teach reading with great ease., job interview: preparing for a job interview, job interview tips , , have you ever wondered why someone with lesser skills than you gets your job? try listening to these job interview tips to better prepare yourself.,  , new zealand: the diversities in culture. learn about new zealand, new zealand, new zealand is an island country near australia with a colourful culture. the people are generally friendly and welcoming to strangers. there is a maori population that has its own unique culture .,  , corporate culture: working in a corporate environment needs a deed understanding of a company's environment., corporate culture  , , this recording looks at the challenges of working in a corporate environment., more high level mp3 here>>>>,  , , ,  ,  , , , kids course ebooks- teach english to kids with professionally designed materials.our esl/efl/esol english for kids courseware is a hot item on most english teacher's shopping lists with good reason. whether you are using our materials as a full time course for your school curriculum or supplementary materials for your young learners' lessons, there is something here for everyone. take a tour of the contents and see for yourself. over 300 exercises in this book. they include: printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations, mp3 audio and all the tools you need to deliver a fantastic lesson to esl/efl young learners. there is something in here for everyone.the ebook has a built-in search engine which makes it easy for you to find stuff.,  , , worksheet ebooks- over 1000 pages of printable exercises in quality pdf. be the star teacher or school by delivering effective lessons. get printables and more in one bundle. never again stress out on lesson planning. looking for printable teaching materials? these printable worksheets will save you time. we are dedicated to making the lives of teachers a lot easier. we empower new and old teachers with fresh ideas for their lessons. there are esl/efl board games, grammar worksheets, vocabulary worksheets, kids worksheets, crossword and word search puzzles to teach beginners to advanced level students. »»check this out,  , (100 pdf exercises & 100 answer sheets), , math workbook 1 is a content-rich downloadable zip file with 100 printable exercises and 100 pages of answer sheets attached to each exercise. this product is suitable for preschool, kindergarten and grade 1. the product is available for instant download after purchase. not convinced? take a video tour by clicking on the e-book icon to your left., take a video tour - click here>>>,  , download a variety of grammar, vocabulary, phonetics, puzzles and education ebooks in pdf and zip file formats., our content-rich kids course can be used as a full-time esl school course or supplementary materials for teaching esl kids., teach english and other subjects with powerpoint presentations. ppt makes your teaching come alive.it's is a must for teachers., we have a collection of cool math resources for kindergarten, preschool, 1st to 6th grades. easy math teaching materials!, on this site, we have a collection of survival chinese materials for learning mandarin - ipod videos, flash videos, games, quizzes>>, here are some of the products you may also be interested in., ,  , teach english phonetic pronunciation using ipa. this course package offers a number of resources. there are mp3, worksheets, flashcards, charts, video slides, powerpoint presentations and more to make the teaching of pronunciation very easy. tongue twisters with mp3 audio and a bbc audio chart puts in your hand the most comprehensive pronunciation course. preview content>> remember this is an ebook which means you pay and download it immediately.no waiting time!!!,  , , grammar & vocabulary quizzes for free and commercial online self-access learning. computers have changed the way we study by offering students a great chance toward self-study. on this site we have put together key english grammar and vocabulary quizzes for self-tutoring. our quizzes include: multiple choice, gap fill, word puzzles with clues, spelling quizzes, matching quizzes, short answers and more. they can be used by both teachers and students in their learning and teaching of english grammar and vocabulary. to help you easily teach or study with them, we have divided the quizzes into all the stages of english learning i.e kids, beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate & upper-intermediate/advanced level quizzes. these quizzes will give students a command of key english grammar and vocabulary. while these quizzes are absolutely free for online use, you can buy them and keep for offline browsing. »»check this out, download english video slide lessons for use on ipods, pcs or laptops.these videos are lesson presentations built with powerpoint. learn & teach new vocabulary, pronunciation, spelling and sentence structures with videos that can be used for self-tutoring or teaching in larger classrooms. our videos are excellent tools for beginner, elementary and pre-intermediate level students. »»check this out, ,  , math workbooks 1, 2 and 3 are content-rich downloadable zip files with 100s of math printable exercises and 100s of pages of answer sheets attached to each exercise. this product is suitable for preschool, kindergarten and grade 1 to 6th grade. the product is available for instant download after purchase. not convinced? take a video tour by clicking on the e-book icon to your left.,  ,  , , chinese mp3 and audio scripts: download the mp3 audio and the audio transcripts. the audio are of the highest quality and very good for listening. chinese-ilab.com offers you the resources to help you learn chinese yourself. the audio contains useful phrases and vocabulary, clearly laid out with translations in pinyin chinese and chinese characters all geared towards facilitating your learning., chinese video lessons: download our highly instructive beginner and elementary video slide lessons for use on your ipods, iphones, pdas and mp4 devices. for ipod/iphone users, simply use itunes like you always do to sync them to your ipod/iphones. there are 20 communicative video lessons and 25 vocabulary video slides.,  , -your websites have helped me more than i can say. thank you for all the work you have done in developing them. yours sincerely,, david nebauer, australia 2007-3-15, -hello mr/ms kisito,, i am the elearning adviser to our skills for life faculty here at city of bristol college.  i have recently discovered your website for use by our students and would like to say how great it is. the materials are excellent and the links to other materials are very helpful. i have added a link to it from our own in-college vle (we use blackboard) so that students and tutors can find it when they are accessing materials from home and within college.  thank you for working so hard at such a useful resource.   kind regards, stella dearsley, e-learning advisor, we provide the most practical materials for esl/efl, chinese language and math education. our products are mostly esl and language related. our products are delivered as zip files, powerpoint, cd/dvd. teachers and students will find printable ebooks, powerpoint lessons, video slides and audio podcasts, esl worksheets,quizzes, audiobook readers, powerpoint and more resources for teaching and studying english as a second language.students with ipods can download ready-made ipod compatible podcasts for self-tutoring of english. mp3 for english listening with texts read at clear and reasonable speeds. your mobile phone, ipod, laptop, mp3 players are all language learning tools. download our videos, mp3 and interactive tests to help you learn english., since its creation in 2005, the esl galaxy has rapidly expanded into a portal site with its own sub-sites. this six-in-one website includes : esltower.com, english-4kids.com, englishmedialab.com & download-esl.com and chinesefortravel.com. eslkidslab.com, eslgamesworld.com. with over 6556 resources, we lead the way with offering free resources for english teaching and learning. our resources range from printable worksheets to computer-assisted esl materials. our team is made up of full-time english teachers who are still creating and updating this website on an almost daily basis., we have esl, efl, tefl,tesl,math, chinese, mandarin, download,ebook,e-book, podcasts, ipod video, esl resources,mp3,listening,learning materials,english,teaching materials,download videos,podcast video,esl lesson plans,grammar exercises,reading comprehension,ielts,language podcast,esl worksheets,exercises, online listening, printable worksheets,esl grammar, esl activities,ipod,esl video podcast, teach english,learn english, using ipod,podcast,tongue twisters, audio books, powerpoint,lesson plan powerpoint,vocabulary,powerpoint,reading, writing, interactive,powerpoint presentations,classroom,videocasts,, audiocasts,mp3,download, print, printable,worksheets,, english teachers,teach esl, efl, esol, tefl,tesol][,  , mp3 for download or online listening,  , learn english with your pc, ipods and mp3/mp4 players. download podcasts,  , online podcast recordings for higher levels, download podcasts- preparing for a job interview, new zealand- a country with a great cultural diversity, corporate culture- working in a corporate environment,  , our free esl & education sites,  ,  ,  , esl kids course downloads, esl grammar & vocabulary ebooks.,  , , math e-book - workbook 1 - for pre-k, kindergarten & 1st grade,  , , featured products,  , pronunciation: phonetic courseware, interactive: vocabulary and grammar quizzes & game cds, math products: math e-books & cds, mandarin chinese language learning tools,  , user feedback, , what we do at download-esl.com, product pages, hottest products, free stuff, site profile& links, about the esl-galaxy.com & download-esl.com, website focus, esl young learners, interactive exercises, products of download-esl.com]esl downloads,mp3 podcasts, for intermediate & advanced listening[, audio books, - shapes, more stuff for this level here>>>, job interview:, new zealand- a country with a great cultural diversity, corporate culture- working in a corporate environment, more high level mp3 here>>>>, esl games world, esl kids lab, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com, chinese-ilab.com, english-4kids.com, esltower.com, englishmedialab.com, learn chinese online, , printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations, mp3 audio, esl, , math workbook 1, zip, 100 printable exercises, preschool, kindergarten, grade 1, , mp3, worksheets, flashcards, charts, video slides, powerpoint presentations, tongue twisters with mp3 audio, preview content>>, , grammar & vocabulary quizzes, kids, beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate & upper-intermediate/advanced level quizzes, , math workbooks 1, 2 and 3 are, zip, 100s of math printable exercises, preschool, kindergarten, grade 1 to 6th grade, , since its creation in 2005, the esl galaxy has rapidly expanded into a portal site with its own sub-sites. this six-in-one website includes : esltower.com, english-4kids.com, englishmedialab.com & download-esl.com and chinesefortravel.com. eslkidslab.com, eslgamesworld.com. with over 6556 resources, we lead the way with offering free resources for english teaching and learning. our resources range from printable worksheets to computer-assisted esl materials. our team is made up of full-time english teachers who are still creating and updating this website on an almost daily basis., website focus we have esl, efl, tefl,tesl,math, chinese, mandarin, download,ebook,e-book, podcasts, ipod video, esl resources,mp3,listening,learning materials,english,teaching materials,download videos,podcast video,esl lesson plans,grammar exercises,reading comprehension,ielts,language podcast,esl worksheets,exercises, online listening, printable worksheets,esl grammar, esl activities,ipod,esl video podcast, teach english,learn english, using ipod,podcast,tongue twisters, audio books, powerpoint,lesson plan powerpoint,vocabulary,powerpoint,reading, writing, interactive,powerpoint presentations,classroom,videocasts, audiocasts,mp3,download, print, printable,worksheets, english teachers,teach esl, efl, esol, tefl,tesol, , , , , esl young learners kids worksheets games for kids lessons phonics rescources flashcards video lessons interactive exercises grammar quizzes vocabulary quizzes video slides pronunciation exercises online practice exercises products of download-esl.com esl kids ebooks powerpoint packs math ebooks grammar/vocab ebooks esl courseware downloads home | copyright | contact | about][home, e-books, kids, powerpoint, games, videos, quizzes, math, , esl games world : free esl fun games for teaching, printable board games,ppt games, card games, interactive games, hangman, jeopardy, snakes and ladders and game templates., esl kids lab: free printable worksheets for esl kids, phonics, flashcards, video lessons,games and more, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable esl worksheets, grammar & vocabulary worksheets in high pdf quality., chinese-ilab.com: learn chinese online for free, videos lessons, mp3 audio, pdf audio scripts and interactive games and quizzes for mandarin learning., english-4kids.com: resources for teaching kids,videos, worksheets, games, puzzles, and more for esl kids teachers and students., esltower.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable and interactive esl exercises, grammar & vocabulary worksheets and quizzes for all levels., englishmedialab.com: a free online resource site for students to learn english vocabulary and grammar using videos and interactive quizzes, learn chinese online : free chinese lessons online, free mp3 downloads, learn chinese, speak chinese, spoken mandarin lessons online, esl e-books, esl kids course, ppt products, game products, math downloads, mandarin chinese, kids ebooks, video lessons, worksheets, phonics, esl tongue twisters, free audio materials, esl downloads, quizzes online, about, copyright, sitemap, internal links, external links, contact us, kids worksheets, games for kids lessons, phonics rescources, flashcards, video lessons, vocabulary quizzes, video slides, pronunciation exercises, online practice exercises, powerpoint packs, math ebooks, grammar/vocab ebooks, esl courseware downloads]