[what is tefl? what exactly is teaching english as a foreign language?, what is tefl.net? about this website, its resources and aims, the definitive guide to tefl frequently asked questions about tefl, tefl courses and tefl jobs, tefl jobs board hundreds of job offers for english language teachers. updated 24/7. post job free, the definitive guide to tefl jobs, tefl jobs discussion forums, about tefl.net an independent site with resources and objective advice for tefl teachers, tefl guide a comprehensive series of frequently asked questions about tefl, tefl links directory websites of interest to tefl teachers, new pages on tefl.net and englishclub, for teachers: vocabulary activity sheets free downloadable and printable two-page vocab activity sheets that encourage students to practise their english skills both alone and working with a partner. each student activity sheet comes with one page of teacher's notes giving clear directions and answers., for teachers: grammar activity sheets free downloadable and printable two-page grammar activity sheets that encourage students to practise their english skills both alone and working with a partner. each student activity sheet comes with one page of teacher's notes giving clear directions and answers., expressions quiz: time 1, you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about time., , internet vs world wide web - what's the difference?, many people think that the internet and the web are the same. although they are intermingled and used together, they are certainly not the same. the internet could exist without the web, but the web as we know it could not exist without the internet., 7 online free tools teachers often underutilize these tools will help you become efficient as a teacher and increase your students' participation. what i like the most is that these tools make it easy to access all your teaching materials, including students' grades, and assessments, online anywhere and anytime, expressions quiz: sleep, you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about sleep., , expressions quiz: relationships, you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about relationships., , more..., tefl downloads free resources for tefl teachers to download, post job ad recruit tefl teachers free on one of the web's most popular tefl job boards, 6 ways to shut up required reading for all teachers, , the vocabulary of censorship, vaccine vocabulary & quiz, covid-19 vocab & quiz, englishclub for learners, englishclub for teachers, top 10 @ tefl.net:, some of your comments - thanks!, "great ideas! very refreshing! will work wonders in our advanced class!!" - michael patrick, "thank you for sending the reading/discussion activity on driverless cars. a superb activity and i will get plenty of use out of it!" - david cain, "awesome advice!!! thank you so much josef!" - ana cecília miranda, "only joined your site yesterday. so impressed." - alyson watson, "dear josef: i'd like to thank you for sharing such great materials with us." - hamed lorestani, "try a little role-switching is a fantastically useful tip." - elias gasparini, © 1998-2022 tefl.net the world's premier independent network for tefl teachers][tefl forums, tefl teaching resources, tefl jobs resources 🧳, tefl courses, esl lesson plans, esl worksheets, teacher training resources, esl admin, what you're saying about tefl.net, tefl or tesl?, this week in history 🔈, site features, about tefl.net, connect with tefl.net, englishclub group]tefl.net | teaching english as a foreign language[tefl.net - helping you teach english as a foreign language, what is tefl?, what is tefl.net?, the definitive guide to tefl, tefl jobs board, learn to teach english][teaching online, present simple continuous, esl lesson plans, topic-based lesson plans, language culture, present perfect activities, quizzes for tefl teachers, present continuous games, grammar translation method, past perfect practice, esl lesson plans, tefl forums, teacher training, esl admin, guide to tefl, tefl courses, free downloads, post job free, tefl shop, about, advertise, join tefl.net, newsletter archive, submit tefl course, guest post, sitemap, privacy | terms, twitter, linkedin, pinterest, contact tefl.net, add link | link to tefl.net, tefl.net, equiz.me, englishclub, myenglishclub]