[, page intro: videos slides, mp3 & video podcasts, english audio ebooks for reading, printable worksheet ebooks for educators, powerpoint presentations, self-grading grammar & vocabulary quizzes and more. this is where you will find all the best affordable resources to download for teaching or learning english as a foreign language learning. don't worry, we offer you free samples., ,  , download english video slide lessons for use on ipods, pcs or laptops.these videos are lesson presentations built with powerpoint. learn new vocabulary, pronunciation, spelling and sentence structures with videos that can be used for self-tutoring or teaching in a classroom. our videos are excellent tools for beginner, elementary and pre-intermediate level students. download and try these free samples for use on pc and ipods., , take a tour of all video content>>>>, for pc users: we recommend the 640x480 flash videos for teaching in classrooms or on one-to-one because they are bigger and built with flash. they have cross pc compatibility. pay and download over 50 similar video slides for teacher and computer self-study. read sales terms >>>,  ,  , if you would just like to use these videos online, follow the links below. note that these links will point you to our other websites. englishmedialab.com and english-4kids.com . the online videos are only good for one-to-one use on the pc. but the downloadable pc versions are larger., kids& beginner course lessons - lessons by courses, course 1 lessons, unit  intro – alphabet & phonics resources. , aim: teach letters of the alphabet, unit   1 – greetings - hello, aim: teach basic greetings – hello, hi, goodbye., unit   2 – what’s your name?, aim: to teach kids how to say their names., unit   3 – how old are you?, aim: teach kids how to say their age and  learn numbers 1 to 5., unit   4 – numbers – how many?, aim: teach kids how to count from 1 to 10., unit   5 a – colours – what colour is it?, aim: teach kids how to describe things through colours., unit 5 b - colours vocabulary, aim: teach colours vocabulary, unit 5 c - green monster colours lesson, aim: teach colours through a colours songs, unit   6 – fruits – i like apples., aim: teach kids names of fruits and how to express likes., unit  7 – body – i have a head., aim: teach kids parts of the body., unit  8–  actions  – i can, i can’t., aim: teach kids how to express ability using simple action verbs., course 2 lessons, unit  1 – animals – farms animals. , aim: teach students how to express preference by using vocabulary related to farm animals., unit   2 – family members, aim: teach words and expressions used when describing family., unit  3 – school bag, aim: to teach words and expressions related to classroom items., unit   4 – actions – can and can’t  , aim: teach action verbs, unit   5 – shapes & sizes, aim: teach various shapes and adjectives to describe size., unit   6 – demonstrative pronouns – this/that/these/those, aim: teach  singular and plurals of nouns and demonstrative pronouns., unit   7 – numbers – 10 to 100, aim: teach numbers 10 to 100 and pronunciation differences between long and short vowels., unit  8 – toys – where is it?, aim: teach  words and expressions related to toys and to ask where things are., unit  9 –  days of the week and weekly activities, aim: teach days of the week and some things we do weekly., unit 10 -   weather – what’s the weather like?, aim: teach students how to ask about the weather and describe it., unit 11 -   food – what do you want to eat, aim: teach students about the things we eat and express want, course 3 lessons, unit  1 – pets : why do you like dogs?, aim: teach  names of pets and give a brief description of pets using personality adjectives., unit   2a – time – what time is it?, aim: teach students how to tell the time and also how to talk about daily routines., unit   2b – time – what time is it?, aim: teach students how to tell the time using quarter to/past/ half past etc., unit   3 – months & birthdays – when is your birthday?, aim: teach students months of the year and how to tell dates using months and ordinal numbers., unit   4 – jobs – what people do., aim: to teach kids how to describe jobs using action verbs., unit  5  – actions – what are you doing?, aim: students will learn how to describe actions in progress using the present progressive., unit   6 – transport – how do you come to school?, aim: teach students different means of transport and talk about going around., unit   7 – clothes – what are you wearing today?, aim: to learn to describe what someone is wearing., unit   8 –  where is it? – at home, aim: teach kids prepositions of place, alongside rooms and things at home., unit  9a – vegetables – how much are the carrots?, aim: teach kids vegetable vocabulary and how to go shopping for veggies., unit  9b – vegetables – extra vegetable vocabulary lesson - cauliflower, broccoli etc., aim: teach students extra vegetable vocabulary., unit  10 –  weather  and clothes  - put on your sunglasses., aim: teach kids how to talk about clothes relative to the weather., unit 11 -  zoo – what does a panda look like?, aim: to teach students how to describe zoo animals by what they eat and look like.,  ,  , ,  , teach english phonetic pronunciation using ipa. this course package offers a number of resources. there are mp3, worksheets, flashcards, charts, video slides, powerpoint presentations and more to make the teaching of pronunciation very easy. tongue twisters with mp3 audio and a bbc audio chart puts in your hand the most comprehensive pronunciation course. preview content>>, buy now! $18 usd,  , ,  ,  , , , worksheet ebooks- over 1000 pages of printable exercises in quality pdf. be the star teacher or school by delivering effective lessons. get printables and more in one bundle. never again stress out on lesson planning. looking for printable teaching materials? these printable worksheets will save you time. we are dedicated to making the lives of teachers a lot easier. we empower new and old teachers with fresh ideas for their lessons. there are esl/efl board games, grammar worksheets, vocabulary worksheets, kids worksheets, crossword and word search puzzles to teach beginners to advanced level students. »»check this out,  , (100 pdf exercises & 100 answer sheets), , math workbook 1 is a content-rich downloadable zip file with 100 printable exercises and 100 pages of answer sheets attached to each exercise. this product is suitable for preschool, kindergarten and grade 1. the product is available for instant download after purchase. not convinced? take a video tour by clicking on the e-book icon to your left., take a video tour - click here>>>,  , download a variety of grammar, vocabulary, phonetics, puzzles and education ebooks in pdf and zip file formats., our content-rich kids course can be used as a full-time esl school course or supplementary materials for teaching esl kids., teach english and other subjects with powerpoint presentations. ppt makes your teaching come alive.it's is a must for teachers., we have a collection of cool math resources for kindergarten, preschool, 1st to 6th grades. easy math teaching materials!, on this site, we have a collection of survival chinese materials for learning mandarin - ipod videos, flash videos, games, quizzes>>, here are some of the products you may also be interested in., , grammar & vocabulary quizzes for free and commercial online self-access learning. computers have changed the way we study by offering students a great chance toward self-study. on this site we have put together key english grammar and vocabulary quizzes for self-tutoring. our quizzes include: multiple choice, gap fill, word puzzles with clues, spelling quizzes, matching quizzes, short answers and more. they can be used by both teachers and students in their learning and teaching of english grammar and vocabulary. to help you easily teach or study with them, we have divided the quizzes into all the stages of english learning i.e kids, beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate & upper-intermediate/advanced level quizzes. these quizzes will give students a command of key english grammar and vocabulary. while these quizzes are absolutely free for online use, you can buy them and keep for offline browsing. »»check this out, download english video slide lessons for use on ipods, pcs or laptops.these videos are lesson presentations built with powerpoint. learn & teach new vocabulary, pronunciation, spelling and sentence structures with videos that can be used for self-tutoring or teaching in larger classrooms. our videos are excellent tools for beginner, elementary and pre-intermediate level students. »»check this out, ,  , math workbooks 1, 2 and 3 are content-rich downloadable zip files with 100s of math printable exercises and 100s of pages of answer sheets attached to each exercise. this product is suitable for preschool, kindergarten and grade 1 to 6th grade. the product is available for instant download after purchase. not convinced? take a video tour by clicking on the e-book icon to your left.,  ,  , , chinese mp3 and audio scripts: download the mp3 audio and the audio transcripts. the audio are of the highest quality and very good for listening. chinese-ilab.com offers you the resources to help you learn chinese yourself. the audio contains useful phrases and vocabulary, clearly laid out with translations in pinyin chinese and chinese characters all geared towards facilitating your learning., chinese video lessons: download our highly instructive beginner and elementary video slide lessons for use on your ipods, iphones, pdas and mp4 devices. for ipod/iphone users, simply use itunes like you always do to sync them to your ipod/iphones. there are 20 communicative video lessons and 25 vocabulary video slides.,  , -your websites have helped me more than i can say. thank you for all the work you have done in developing them. yours sincerely,, david nebauer, australia 2007-3-15, -hello mr/ms kisito,, i am the elearning adviser to our skills for life faculty here at city of bristol college.  i have recently discovered your website for use by our students and would like to say how great it is. the materials are excellent and the links to other materials are very helpful. i have added a link to it from our own in-college vle (we use blackboard) so that students and tutors can find it when they are accessing materials from home and within college.  thank you for working so hard at such a useful resource.   kind regards, stella dearsley, e-learning advisor, we provide the most practical materials for esl/efl, chinese language and math education. our products are mostly esl and language related. our products are delivered as zip files, powerpoint, cd/dvd. teachers and students will find printable ebooks, powerpoint lessons, video slides and audio podcasts, esl worksheets,quizzes, audiobook readers, powerpoint and more resources for teaching and studying english as a second language.students with ipods can download ready-made ipod compatible podcasts for self-tutoring of english. mp3 for english listening with texts read at clear and reasonable speeds. your mobile phone, ipod, laptop, mp3 players are all language learning tools. download our videos, mp3 and interactive tests to help you learn english., since its creation in 2005, the esl galaxy has rapidly expanded into a portal site with its own sub-sites. this six-in-one website includes : esltower.com, english-4kids.com, englishmedialab.com & download-esl.com and chinesefortravel.com. eslkidslab.com, eslgamesworld.com. with over 6556 resources, we lead the way with offering free resources for english teaching and learning. our resources range from printable worksheets to computer-assisted esl materials. our team is made up of full-time english teachers who are still creating and updating this website on an almost daily basis., we have esl, efl, tefl,tesl,math, chinese, mandarin, download,ebook,e-book, podcasts, ipod video, esl resources,mp3,listening,learning materials,english,teaching materials,download videos,podcast video,esl lesson plans,grammar exercises,reading comprehension,ielts,language podcast,esl worksheets,exercises, online listening, printable worksheets,esl grammar, esl activities,ipod,esl video podcast, teach english,learn english, using ipod,podcast,tongue twisters, audio books, powerpoint,lesson plan powerpoint,vocabulary,powerpoint,reading, writing, interactive,powerpoint presentations,classroom,videocasts,, audiocasts,mp3,download, print, printable,worksheets,, english teachers,teach esl, efl, esol, tefl,tesol][, learn & teach english with video slides for, pc, ipods, mp3/mp4 devices, free video slides downloads for ipods & pc use- try them out, order now: 50 flash video slides for pc users $ 20 usd, order now -50 ipod video lesson podcasts for $ 25 usd, can i just use these videos online?, more language products, buy both for a discount price of $ 35 us dollars,  , esl - english young learners' course ebooks,  , esl grammar & vocabulary ebooks.,  , , math e-book - workbook 1 - for pre-k, kindergarten & 1st grade, our free education sites, , featured products,  , interactive: vocabulary and grammar quizzes & game cds, math products: math e-books & cds, mandarin chinese language learning tools,  , user feedback, , what we do at download-esl.com, product pages, hottest products, free stuff, site profile& links, about the esl-galaxy.com & download-esl.com, website focus, esl young learners, interactive exercises, products of download-esl.com]esl video podcasts, download videos for learning with ipod and pc[, free video slides downloads for ipods & pc use- try them out, for ipod, for computer use, for ipod, for computer use, for ipod, for computer use, for ipod, for computer use, weather- what's the weather like?, for ipod, for computer use, view all 50 video slide contents for ipod & pc, >>>, take a tour of all video content>>>>, read sales terms >>>, preview content>>, buy now! $18 usd, esl, , math workbook 1, zip, 100 printable exercises, preschool, kindergarten, grade 1, esl games world, esl kids lab, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com, chinese-ilab.com, english-4kids.com, esltower.com, englishmedialab.com, learn chinese online, , grammar & vocabulary quizzes, kids, beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate & upper-intermediate/advanced level quizzes, , math workbooks 1, 2 and 3 are, zip, 100s of math printable exercises, preschool, kindergarten, grade 1 to 6th grade, , since its creation in 2005, the esl galaxy has rapidly expanded into a portal site with its own sub-sites. this six-in-one website includes : esltower.com, english-4kids.com, englishmedialab.com & download-esl.com and chinesefortravel.com. eslkidslab.com, eslgamesworld.com. with over 6556 resources, we lead the way with offering free resources for english teaching and learning. our resources range from printable worksheets to computer-assisted esl materials. our team is made up of full-time english teachers who are still creating and updating this website on an almost daily basis., website focus we have esl, efl, tefl,tesl,math, chinese, mandarin, download,ebook,e-book, podcasts, ipod video, esl resources,mp3,listening,learning materials,english,teaching materials,download videos,podcast video,esl lesson plans,grammar exercises,reading comprehension,ielts,language podcast,esl worksheets,exercises, online listening, printable worksheets,esl grammar, esl activities,ipod,esl video podcast, teach english,learn english, using ipod,podcast,tongue twisters, audio books, powerpoint,lesson plan powerpoint,vocabulary,powerpoint,reading, writing, interactive,powerpoint presentations,classroom,videocasts, audiocasts,mp3,download, print, printable,worksheets, english teachers,teach esl, efl, esol, tefl,tesol, , , , , esl young learners kids worksheets games for kids lessons phonics rescources flashcards video lessons interactive exercises grammar quizzes vocabulary quizzes video slides pronunciation exercises online practice exercises products of download-esl.com esl kids ebooks powerpoint packs math ebooks grammar/vocab ebooks esl courseware downloads home | copyright | contact | about][home, e-books, kids, powerpoint, games, videos, quizzes, math, , lesson- fruits-what fruits do you like? - a) for ipod b) for computer use, lesson- shapes-what shape is this? a) for ipod b) for computer use, lesson- comparing prices- expensive, as...as a) for ipod b) for computer use, lesson- rooms at home- how many rooms...? a) for ipod b) for computer use, lesson-weather- what's the weather like? a) for ipod b) for computer use, buy over 50 similar video slides for ipod & pc use, view all 50 video slide contents for ipod & pc >>> hit back when done, esl games world : free esl fun games for teaching, printable board games,ppt games, card games, interactive games, hangman, jeopardy, snakes and ladders and game templates., esl kids lab: free printable worksheets for esl kids, phonics, flashcards, video lessons,games and more, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable esl worksheets, grammar & vocabulary worksheets in high pdf quality., chinese-ilab.com: learn chinese online for free, videos lessons, mp3 audio, pdf audio scripts and interactive games and quizzes for mandarin learning., english-4kids.com: resources for teaching kids,videos, worksheets, games, puzzles, and more for esl kids teachers and students., esltower.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable and interactive esl exercises, grammar & vocabulary worksheets and quizzes for all levels., englishmedialab.com: a free online resource site for students to learn english vocabulary and grammar using videos and interactive quizzes, learn chinese online : free chinese lessons online, free mp3 downloads, learn chinese, speak chinese, spoken mandarin lessons online, esl e-books, esl kids course, ppt products, game products, math downloads, mandarin chinese, kids ebooks, video lessons, worksheets, phonics, esl tongue twisters, free audio materials, esl downloads, quizzes online, about, copyright, sitemap, internal links, external links, contact us, kids worksheets, games for kids lessons, phonics rescources, flashcards, video lessons, vocabulary quizzes, video slides, pronunciation exercises, online practice exercises, powerpoint packs, math ebooks, grammar/vocab ebooks, esl courseware downloads]