[as it is takes a daily look at issues in the news in the united states and around the world., arts & culture is our weekly program about music, pop culture, society and life., classic short stories that introduce american literature to intermediate english learners., u.s. history explains the history of the united states. each report tells how the country and its people have developed., new developments in science, space exploration, environment and technology, words and their stories programs explain idioms and expressions that many learners of american english find difficult to understand., learning english programs use a limited vocabulary and short sentences. they are read at a slower pace than voa's other english broadcasts. our broadcasts were formerly known as special english., george washington. abraham lincoln. john f. kennedy. millard fillmore? some u.s. presidents are better known than others. “america’s presidents” tells each of their stories: when they lived, what they were like, how they governed, and why americans remember them., the day's hottest issue in social media., ][accessibility links, latest program, upcoming, more radio, programs]programs - radio[][skip to main content, skip to main navigation, skip to search, , , , , , , , search search, audio menu, about learning english, beginning level, intermediate level, advanced level, us history, video, more, voa learning english latest program learning english broadcast upcoming 00:30 - 01:00 learning english broadcast, voa learning english latest program learning english broadcast, learning english broadcast, upcoming 00:30 - 01:00 learning english broadcast, 00:30 - 01:00 learning english broadcast, more radio program index, program index, search search, radio, tv, read, listen & learn, as it is as it is takes a daily look at issues in the news in the united states and around the world., arts & culture arts & culture is our weekly program about music, pop culture, society and life., american stories classic short stories that introduce american literature to intermediate english learners., u.s. history u.s. history explains the history of the united states. each report tells how the country and its people have developed., science & technology new developments in science, space exploration, environment and technology, words and their stories words and their stories programs explain idioms and expressions that many learners of american english find difficult to understand., learning english broadcast learning english programs use a limited vocabulary and short sentences. they are read at a slower pace than voa's other english broadcasts. our broadcasts were formerly known as special english., america's presidents george washington. abraham lincoln. john f. kennedy. millard fillmore? some u.s. presidents are better known than others. “america’s presidents” tells each of their stories: when they lived, what they were like, how they governed, and why americans remember them., what's trending today? the day's hottest issue in social media., follow us, , , , , , , , about learning english about us contact us terms of use and privacy notice accessibility request our content sign up for our newsletter subscribe to podcast/rss find us on satellite tv learning english word book our policy about comments, about us, contact us, terms of use and privacy notice, accessibility, request our content, sign up for our newsletter, subscribe to podcast/rss, find us on satellite tv, learning english word book, our policy about comments, video programs english in a minute english @ the movies everyday grammar tv learning english tv let's learn english - level 1 let's learn english - level 2 let's teach english news literacy news words talk2us, english in a minute, english @ the movies, everyday grammar tv, learning english tv, let's learn english - level 1, let's learn english - level 2, let's teach english, news literacy, news words, talk2us, audio programs america's national parks america's presidents american stories arts & culture as it is ask a teacher education everyday grammar health & lifestyle learning english broadcast science & technology u.s. history what it takes words & their stories, america's national parks, america's presidents, american stories, arts & culture, as it is, ask a teacher, education, everyday grammar, health & lifestyle, learning english broadcast, science & technology, u.s. history, what it takes, words & their stories]