[about this site: printable esl worksheets, games for esl classrooms, efl videos tutorials, ppt lessons, interactive vocabulary & grammar activities, teaching downloads. teach esl young learners: preschool, kindergarten/nursery, primary school, k12 with resources from this site. newly added- math exercises for children>>> , , printable efl/esl pdf worksheets to teach, spelling,phonics worksheets, reading and vocabulary to kids. very handy stuff for teachers of kids or parents who want to help their kids at home. there are :, we provide a comprehensive kids lesson tutorials on videos, divided according to grades and levels. there are english lessons for :, teachers and parents' resources, this website is basically for parents and teachers trying to help their kids study english. you will find a guide to the materials you need in the teachers and parents section of the site. sine these resources have been prepared by esl professionals with at least 5 years teaching experience, you will find this site a great help. good luck. we have worksheets, games, videos, interactive video lessons & powerpoint downloads for you., powerpoint for kids lessons. these power point downloads are similar to the videos but you will have to manually click on pictures and words to hear the sound. whereas the videos automatically do all. download powerpoint viewer if you don't have ms powerpoint installed., take your kids to the video lab and teach them english using interactive videos and interactive quizzes. video vocabulary lessons include : clothes, toys, zoo animals, birthday & numbers, farm animals, transportation, weather,vegetables, colors, etc., are you running out of ideas on how to teach your children? are you tired of using mainstream games and activities like hangman? then visit our games section. here we have games that really work. games that were created and tested in the classroom and have been known to be effective classroom tools for teachers.][printable efl/esl kids worksheets: all free!!, kids lab - video tutorials: all free!!, teachers and parents' resources, powerpoint lesson downloads: presentations to set you apart from other teachers, lessons with video tutorials according to levels : interactive videos and quizzes, games for esl kids classrooms- have fun teaching kids with lots of ideas, recommended websites, external links & partners]efl activities for kids, esl printables, worksheets, games, puzzles, for preschool, primary english learners[about this site, math exercises for children, powerpoint for kids lessons, fredisalearns.com, kiz school, english media lab:, esl downloads:, esl games world, esl kids][home, lessons, worksheets, fun games, tutorials, powerpoint, flashcards, extra resources main teachers parents downloads kids lab students tips shop links, main, teachers, parents, downloads, kids lab, students, tips, shop, links, , , , phonics games & videos online - teach your child to read with phonics - phonics games online, phonics worksheets, phonics video tutorials, fredisalearns.com: is a multi-level english program for children between the ages of 4 to 12 featuring tons of cartoon animated videos, games, tests and worksheets to teach and review vocabulary, grammar, spelling and communicative skills., english lessons for kindergarten, games and worksheets, english lessons for children - for parents & teachers of kids - we offer video tutorials, games, worksheets, powerpoint,flashcards, placement tests - kizschool.com, esl ebook packs for kids : resources you can't afford not to have., math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., math practice pre-k to 8th grade: exercises for teaching & practicing math - math games, quizzes, math videos.., esl worksheet ebooks - grammar, crossword & vocabulary ebooks - crosswords, word puzzles, flashcards, games and more for teaching vocabulary grammar. these books will save teachers time. good for beginners, elementary and intermediate levels., self-grading quizzes for kids and beginners - we have quizzes on animals, fruits, transport, toys, classroom objects, jobs, vegetables and more vocabulary quizzes for kids and beginner english learners, eslgamesplus.com : games for teaching english to kids - vocabulary games, spelling games, grammar games, sentences games, , , , , , , puzzle worksheets- crosswords & word search & other puzzles, esl kids video worksheets- watch harry potter, mr. bean & others, while learning english effectively, esl kids worksheets for reading, writing, spelling, vocabulary, kids grammar, esl phonics & phonetics worksheets- teach pronunciation of words using sound and word building., esl kids coloring(colouring) worksheets- kids color (colour) and learn using these printable worksheets., esl board games and communicative activities worksheets for children, esl holidays and festivals worksheets for children- printables for christmas, halloween etc., worksheets for kids - preschool, kindergarten, 1st grade to 4th grade, fun games for learning & teaching - classroom games, grammar games, vocabulary games & more..., preschool kindergarten/nursery school kids, primary school- grade 1 video lessons, primary school- grade 2 video lessons, primary school- grade 3 video lessons, primary school- grade 4 video lessons, primary school- grade 5 video lessons, primary school- grade 6 video lessons., premium quality video courses - preschool, kindergarten to primary level 6, free online games & activities to practice vocabulary, grammar & more, fredisalearns.com: is a multi-level english program for children between the ages of 4 to 12 featuring tons of cartoon animated videos, games, tests and worksheets to teach and review vocabulary, grammar, spelling and communicative skills., kiz school - this site offers english courses for kids from preschool, kindergarten to 6th grade. you don't have to be a professional teacher to teach kids., esl kids lab has teamed up with the following, equally good websites to give you a great experience using the web in teaching., esl galaxy : printable worksheets, board games, word search, matching exercises, crosswords, music worksheets, video worksheets and more free stuff for all levels., english media lab: this free online classroom has a huge database of videos, esl quizzes, grammar exercises, activities for all levels, beginners, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate, advanced levels., esl downloads: download esl lesson plan materials and interactive exercises for students, esl games world : esl fun games for teachers and students, esl kids for flashcards, worksheets and games, english term papers written from scratch.]