[, our esl/efl/esol english for kids courseware is a hot item on most english teacher's shopping lists with good reason. whether you are using our materials as a full time course for your school curriculum or supplementary materials for your young learners' lessons, there is something here for everyone. take a tour of the contents and see for yourself. over 300 exercises in this book. they include: printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations, mp3 audio and all the tools you need to deliver a fantastic lesson to esl/efl young learners. there is something in here for everyone.the ebook has a built-in search engine which makes it easy for you to find stuff. click on the book cover to browse the content.the links to files are broken in this sample view., take a video tour of this ebook>>, following in the same tradition of our kids course ebook 1 is ebook 2. unlike ebook1, ebook 2 has 11 units and a wide range of resources. this explains why teachers find these resources a great deal of help.. whether you are using our materials as a full time course for your school curriculum or supplementary materials for your young learners' lessons, there is something here for everyone. take a tour of the contents and see for yourself. over 200 exercises in this book. they include: printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations and all the tools you need to deliver a fantastic lesson to esl/efl young learners. there is something in here for everyone.the ebook has a built-in search engine which makes it easy for you to find stuff. click on the book cover to browse the content.the links to files are broken in this sample view., take a video tour of this ebook>>, , ebook 3 is finally here. this is what you have been waiting for. packed with tons of resources, ebook 3 has 11 fully developed units with complete sets of materials from ppt , flashcards, video slides and printables. there are written lesson plans for each unit so that even a new teacher can teach a fantastic lesson with little or no time on lesson planning. experienced teachers know what i am talking about when i say less time on lesson planning. take a tour of the content by clicking the book cover. over 200 exercises in this book. they include: printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations and all the tools you need to deliver a fantastic lesson to esl/efl young learners. there is something in here for everyone.the ebook has a built-in search engine which makes it easy for you to find stuff. click on the book cover to browse the content.the links to files are broken in this sample view., , ,  , ebook 4 is finally here. there are eleven units in pack this is what you have been waiting for. packed with tons of resources, ebook 4 has 11 fully developed units with complete sets of materials from lesson plans, ppt , flashcards, video slides and printable worksheets. there are written lesson plans for each unit so that even a new teacher can teach a fantastic lesson with little or no time on lesson planning. experienced teachers know what i am talking about when i say less time on lesson planning. take a tour of the content by clicking the pack cover to your left. over 250 exercises in this book as : printable pdf handouts, pdf/ppt flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations and all the tools you need to deliver a fantastic lesson to esl/efl young learners. there is something in here for everyone.the ebook has a built-in search engine which makes it easy for you to find stuff., , , ebook 5 is finally here with lots of resources. packed with tons of resources, ebook 5 has 10 fully developed units with complete sets of materials from lesson plans, ppt , flashcards, video slides and printable pdf handouts. there are written lesson plans for each unit so that even a new teacher can teach a fantastic lesson with little or no time on lesson planning. experienced teachers know what i am talking about when i say less time on lesson planning. take a tour of the content by clicking the book cover to your left. over 260 exercises in this book. they include: printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations and all the tools you need to deliver a fantastic lesson to esl/efl young learners and teenagers. there is something in here for everyone.the ebook has a built-in search engine which makes it easy for you to find stuff., , , ebook 6 has a lot more variety of resources. as the learners go higher, there are complexities in teaching. we understand that. that is why some units of this pack contain fantastic tv quiz games in swf. format. there are 10 fully developed units with complete sets of materials from lesson plans, ppt , flashcards, video slides, flash swf tv style games and printable. there are written lesson plans for each unit so that even a new teacher can teach a fantastic lesson with little or no time on lesson planning. take a tour of the content by clicking the pack cover on your left. there are over 300 exercises in this book. just all the tools you need to deliver a fantastic lesson to esl/efl young learners & teenagers. there is something in here for everyone.the ebook has a built-in search engine which makes it easy for you to find stuff. click on the book cover to browse the content.the links to files are broken in this sample view., ,  ,  , an even better deal has arrived. ebook packs 1, 2 and 3 only $ 59 dollars., save money on ebooks 1, 2 and 3 = download only = $59 -to download, , save money on ebooks 4, 5 and 6 = to download = $ 65, , , , those who asked for cds have been heard. now you can choose between a download only option and a download + cd/dvd option. cd/dvds arrive in 6 to 10 working days. note that there are differences in price on each delivery option. discounts available below!, ,  , ,  , content on this page requires a newer version of adobe flash player., ,  ,  ,  , ,  , board games, card games, powerpoint games and interactive games are just some of the fun esl and education resources we offer. our games help students practice grammar, vocabulary, math skills and more. we also have a number of game templates which teachers and educators can easily use to create exercises for learning.,  , ,  , , worksheet ebooks- over 1000 pages of printable exercises in quality pdf. be the star teacher or school by delivering effective lessons. get printables and more in one bundle. never again stress out on lesson planning. looking for printable teaching materials? these printable worksheets will save you time. we are dedicated to making the lives of teachers a lot easier. we empower new and old teachers with fresh ideas for their lessons. there are esl/efl board games, grammar worksheets, vocabulary worksheets, kids worksheets, crossword and word search puzzles to teach beginners to advanced level students. »»check this out, , powerpoint downloads- for teachers fresh or experienced . teaching students with powerpoint is one of the fastest ways to help students learn. powerpoint is usually bundled in your ms office pack. this tool helps teachers to create lessons of high appeal. with powerpoint, vocabulary is taught more vividly, thereby helping students to easily remember. we have over 65 state-of-the-art powerpoint presentations for esl teachers. this bundle will cut down on lesson planning and reduce the stress of presenting vocabulary to students from kindergarten to pre-intermediate levels.»»check this out, , , teach and practice over 500 essential english words in 50 fun crossword puzzles. students, especially young learners are crazy about word puzzles. using puzzles is a good way to teach and practice new vocabulary with the spellings of the words. the puzzles are in pdf formats which makes it easy to print and use. in most of the low level puzzles, we have provided fantastic graphics to further clarify vocabulary for visual learners. you don't even need to be an experienced teacher to use these puzzles. we provide answers to every puzzle. you are therefore going to download over 100 pages of puzzles and answers. why not try to click on the icon to take a video tour or simply download and try these samples., download 5 free sample puzzles or download as zip, , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , ,  ,  , , download a variety of grammar, vocabulary, phonetics, puzzles and education ebooks in pdf and zip file formats., our content-rich kids course can be used as a full-time esl school course or supplementary materials for teaching esl kids., teach english and other subjects with powerpoint presentations. ppt makes your teaching come alive.it's is a must for teachers., we have a collection of cool math resources for kindergarten, preschool, 1st to 6th grades. easy math teaching materials!, on this site, we have a collection of survival chinese materials for learning mandarin - ipod videos, flash videos, games, quizzes>>, kizschool.com- practical english lessons & resources for kids., kizschool.com has partnered with download-esl.com to offer you this discount!,  ,  , we have esl, efl, tefl,tesl,math, chinese, mandarin, download,ebook,e-book, podcasts, ipod video, esl resources,mp3,listening,learning materials,english,teaching materials,download videos,podcast video,esl lesson plans,grammar exercises,reading comprehension,ielts,language podcast,esl worksheets,exercises, online listening, printable worksheets,esl grammar, esl activities,ipod,esl video podcast, teach english,learn english, using ipod,podcast,tongue twisters, audio books, powerpoint,lesson plan powerpoint,vocabulary,powerpoint,reading, writing, interactive,powerpoint presentations,classroom,videocasts,, audiocasts,mp3,download, print, printable,worksheets,, english teachers,teach esl, efl, esol, tefl,tesol][, esl/efl ebook packs for teaching young learners these products are digital downloads not physical products!! unless you order cds., ebook pack 1 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, buy now for only $ 29 usd, ebook pack 2 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, buy now for only $ 27 usd, ebook pack 3 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, buy for only $ 27 usd to download, ebook pack 4 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, buy for only $ 25 usd to download, ebook pack 5 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, buy for only $ 28 usd to download, ebook pack 6 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, buy for only $ 30 usd to download, discounts & best values, ebook packs 1,23 - $59, ++, ebook packs 4,5,6 - $65, ++,  , very best value- 6 ebooks - $ 119 to download all., now available- download only & cd/dvd-rom delivery options, phonics activities online, esl games products available!, esl grammar & vocabulary ebooks., buy only for $ 24 us dollars,  , powerpoint teaching resources, buy all 50 ppts now for only $ 25 usd, 50 esl pdf crossword puzzles - for beginners, elementary to pre-intermediate levels., buy now - 20 dollars, ,  ,  ,  , join our mailing list, free games to go with these materials, esl fun interactive games teaching & learning, free printable esl board and card games, free powerpoint games for esl teaching, free ms word & powerpoint game templates - make your own games,  , join kiz school - get it all plus more!!, save 15% with this discount coupon code: 74162521c8, sign up now!, , why do i need kiz school?,  ,  ,  ,  , product pages, hottest products, free stuff, site profile& links, website focus, esl young learners, interactive exercises, products of download-esl.com]esl young learner's materials, for kids & teenage learners[, ebook pack 1 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, , printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations, mp3 audio, click on the book cover to browse the content., take a video tour of this ebook>>, ebook pack 2 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, , printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations, click on the book cover to browse the content., take a video tour of this ebook>>, ebook pack 3 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, , printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations, click on the book cover to browse the content., ebook pack 4 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, , lesson plans, ppt , flashcards, video slides, printable worksheets, printable pdf handouts, pdf/ppt flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations, ebook pack 5 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, , lesson plans, ppt , flashcards, video slides and printable pdf handouts., printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations, ebook pack 6 - english for kids/esl young learners' course e-books, , , lesson plans, ppt, flashcards, video slides, flash swf tv style games and printable, click on the book cover to browse the content., , board games, card games, powerpoint games and interactive games, esl, , download 5 free sample puzzles or download as zip, buy now - 20 dollars, kiz school, esl games world, esl kids lab, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com, chinese-ilab.com, english-4kids.com, esltower.com, englishmedialab.com, learn chinese online][home, e-books, kids, powerpoint, games, videos, quizzes, math, , kiz school - practical english lessons for young learners - your home school & school teaching solution?, esl games world : free esl fun games for teaching, printable board games,ppt games, card games, interactive games, hangman, jeopardy, snakes and ladders and game templates., esl kids lab: free printable worksheets for esl kids, phonics, flashcards, video lessons,games and more, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable esl worksheets, grammar & vocabulary worksheets in high pdf quality., chinese-ilab.com: learn chinese online for free, videos lessons, mp3 audio, pdf audio scripts and interactive games and quizzes for mandarin learning., english-4kids.com: resources for teaching kids,videos, worksheets, games, puzzles, and more for esl kids teachers and students., esltower.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable and interactive esl exercises, grammar & vocabulary worksheets and quizzes for all levels., englishmedialab.com: a free online resource site for students to learn english vocabulary and grammar using videos and interactive quizzes, learn chinese online : free chinese lessons online, free mp3 downloads, learn chinese, speak chinese, spoken mandarin lessons online, grammar games - jeopardy, hangman, wheel games, snakes and ladders and more>>>, vocabulary games - memory games, maze games, snakes and ladders, hangman and more>>>, esl online games directory - have fun teaching and learning english with your students, printable board games for esl classrooms, printable card games for the esl classrooms, make your own games with templates, esl powerpoint jeopardy games, esl powerpoint olympic jeopardy games, esl powerpoint taboo games, make your own powerpoint games from our templates, esl powerpoint game templates, esl card game templates, esl baord game templates, esl e-books, esl kids course, ppt products, game products, math downloads, mandarin chinese, kids ebooks, video lessons, worksheets, phonics, esl tongue twisters, free audio materials, esl downloads, quizzes online, about, copyright, sitemap, internal links, external links, contact us, kids worksheets, games for kids lessons, phonics resources, flashcards, video lessons, vocabulary quizzes, video slides, pronunciation exercises, online practice exercises, powerpoint packs, math ebooks, grammar/vocab ebooks, esl courseware downloads]