[webmaster intro: quizzes, , ,  , the modern world of english learning is that filled with computers. computers have changed the way we study by offering students a great chance toward self-access learning. on this site we have put together key english grammar and vocabulary quizzes for self-study. when a student takes a quiz, it automatically grades him or her at the end and tells you him or her where s/he went wrong., our quizzes include: multiple choice, gap fill, word puzzles with clues, spelling quizzes, matching quizzes, short answers and more. they can be used by both teachers and students in their learning and teaching of english grammar and vocabulary. to help you easily teach or study with them, we have divided the quizzes into all the stages of english learning i.e beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate & upper-intermediate/advanced level quizzes. these quizzes will give students a command of key english grammar and vocabulary. while these quizzes are absolutely free for online use, you can buy them and keep for offline browsing., self-study grammar quizzes- view all contents>>>,  , teach and practice over 500 essential english words in 50 fun crossword puzzles. students, especially young learners are crazy about word puzzles. using puzzles is a good way to teach and practice new vocabulary with the spellings of the words. the puzzles are in pdf formats which makes it easy to print and use. in most of the low level puzzles, we have provided fantastic graphics to further clarify vocabulary for visual learners. you don't even need to be an experienced teacher to use these puzzles. we provide answers to every puzzle. you are therefore going to download over 100 pages of puzzles and answers. why not try to click on the icon to take a video tour or simply download and try these samples., download 5 free sample puzzles or download as zip, buy only for $ 20 us dollars, , , 59 usd only time-limited offer during this recession!get it now!, , , ,  ,  , , , worksheet ebooks- over 1000 pages of printable exercises in quality pdf. be the star teacher or school by delivering effective lessons. get printables and more in one bundle. never again stress out on lesson planning. looking for printable teaching materials? these printable worksheets will save you time. we are dedicated to making the lives of teachers a lot easier. we empower new and old teachers with fresh ideas for their lessons. there are esl/efl board games, grammar worksheets, vocabulary worksheets, kids worksheets, crossword and word search puzzles to teach beginners to advanced level students. »»check this out,  , (100 pdf exercises & 100 answer sheets), , math workbook 1 is a content-rich downloadable zip file with 100 printable exercises and 100 pages of answer sheets attached to each exercise. this product is suitable for preschool, kindergarten and grade 1. the product is available for instant download after purchase. not convinced? take a video tour by clicking on the e-book icon to your left., take a video tour - click here>>>,  , download a variety of grammar, vocabulary, phonetics, puzzles and education ebooks in pdf and zip file formats., our content-rich kids course can be used as a full-time esl school course or supplementary materials for teaching esl kids., teach english and other subjects with powerpoint presentations. ppt makes your teaching come alive.it's is a must for teachers., we have a collection of cool math resources for kindergarten, preschool, 1st to 6th grades. easy math teaching materials!, on this site, we have a collection of survival chinese materials for learning mandarin - ipod videos, flash videos, games, quizzes>>, here are some of the products you may also be interested in., ,  , teach english phonetic pronunciation using ipa. this course package offers a number of resources. there are mp3, worksheets, flashcards, charts, video slides, powerpoint presentations and more to make the teaching of pronunciation very easy. tongue twisters with mp3 audio and a bbc audio chart puts in your hand the most comprehensive pronunciation course. preview content>> remember this is an ebook which means you pay and download it immediately.no waiting time!!!,  , , grammar & vocabulary quizzes for free and commercial online self-access learning. computers have changed the way we study by offering students a great chance toward self-study. on this site we have put together key english grammar and vocabulary quizzes for self-tutoring. our quizzes include: multiple choice, gap fill, word puzzles with clues, spelling quizzes, matching quizzes, short answers and more. they can be used by both teachers and students in their learning and teaching of english grammar and vocabulary. to help you easily teach or study with them, we have divided the quizzes into all the stages of english learning i.e kids, beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate & upper-intermediate/advanced level quizzes. these quizzes will give students a command of key english grammar and vocabulary. while these quizzes are absolutely free for online use, you can buy them and keep for offline browsing. »»check this out, download english video slide lessons for use on ipods, pcs or laptops.these videos are lesson presentations built with powerpoint. learn & teach new vocabulary, pronunciation, spelling and sentence structures with videos that can be used for self-tutoring or teaching in larger classrooms. our videos are excellent tools for beginner, elementary and pre-intermediate level students. »»check this out, ,  , math workbooks 1, 2 and 3 are content-rich downloadable zip files with 100s of math printable exercises and 100s of pages of answer sheets attached to each exercise. this product is suitable for preschool, kindergarten and grade 1 to 6th grade. the product is available for instant download after purchase. not convinced? take a video tour by clicking on the e-book icon to your left.,  ,  , , chinese mp3 and audio scripts: download the mp3 audio and the audio transcripts. the audio are of the highest quality and very good for listening. chinese-ilab.com offers you the resources to help you learn chinese yourself. the audio contains useful phrases and vocabulary, clearly laid out with translations in pinyin chinese and chinese characters all geared towards facilitating your learning., chinese video lessons: download our highly instructive beginner and elementary video slide lessons for use on your ipods, iphones, pdas and mp4 devices. for ipod/iphone users, simply use itunes like you always do to sync them to your ipod/iphones. there are 20 communicative video lessons and 25 vocabulary video slides.,  , -your websites have helped me more than i can say. thank you for all the work you have done in developing them. yours sincerely,, david nebauer, australia 2007-3-15, -hello mr/ms kisito,, i am the elearning adviser to our skills for life faculty here at city of bristol college.  i have recently discovered your website for use by our students and would like to say how great it is. the materials are excellent and the links to other materials are very helpful. i have added a link to it from our own in-college vle (we use blackboard) so that students and tutors can find it when they are accessing materials from home and within college.  thank you for working so hard at such a useful resource.   kind regards, stella dearsley, e-learning advisor, we provide the most practical materials for esl/efl, chinese language and math education. our products are mostly esl and language related. our products are delivered as zip files, powerpoint, cd/dvd. teachers and students will find printable ebooks, powerpoint lessons, video slides and audio podcasts, esl worksheets,quizzes, audiobook readers, powerpoint and more resources for teaching and studying english as a second language.students with ipods can download ready-made ipod compatible podcasts for self-tutoring of english. mp3 for english listening with texts read at clear and reasonable speeds. your mobile phone, ipod, laptop, mp3 players are all language learning tools. download our videos, mp3 and interactive tests to help you learn english., since its creation in 2005, the esl galaxy has rapidly expanded into a portal site with its own sub-sites. this six-in-one website includes : esltower.com, english-4kids.com, englishmedialab.com & download-esl.com and chinesefortravel.com. eslkidslab.com, eslgamesworld.com. with over 6556 resources, we lead the way with offering free resources for english teaching and learning. our resources range from printable worksheets to computer-assisted esl materials. our team is made up of full-time english teachers who are still creating and updating this website on an almost daily basis., we have esl, efl, tefl,tesl,math, chinese, mandarin, download,ebook,e-book, podcasts, ipod video, esl resources,mp3,listening,learning materials,english,teaching materials,download videos,podcast video,esl lesson plans,grammar exercises,reading comprehension,ielts,language podcast,esl worksheets,exercises, online listening, printable worksheets,esl grammar, esl activities,ipod,esl video podcast, teach english,learn english, using ipod,podcast,tongue twisters, audio books, powerpoint,lesson plan powerpoint,vocabulary,powerpoint,reading, writing, interactive,powerpoint presentations,classroom,videocasts,, audiocasts,mp3,download, print, printable,worksheets,, english teachers,teach esl, efl, esol, tefl,tesol][, , interactive quizzes for esl,efl students & educators, self-grading grammar & vocabulary quizzes - teach yourself, grammar quiz download- download over 150 self-grading quizzes- only- $ 17 usd, beginner grammar & vocabulary quizzes - free online study, elementary level grammar & vocabulary quizzes- free online study, pre-intermediate level grammar & vocabulary quizzes - free online study, intermediate english grammar and vocabulary quizzes - free online study, upper intermediate & advanced level grammar & vocabulary quizzes -online study, complete english grammar quizzes sorted according to grammar theme, complete english vocabulary quizzes in alphabetical order, , more language products, esl lesson plan e-book - grammar & vocabulary e-book, buy both for a discount price of $ 35 us dollars, remember this is an ebook which means you pay and download it immediately.no waiting time!!!you will also be directed to a page for instant download after purchase. equally, you will receive an email within 24 hours of payment giving you this link.,  , very best value grammar / vocabulary ebooks & 50 esl crosswords combined - $ 50 usd only!, 50 esl pdf crossword puzzles - for beginners, elementary to pre-intermediate levels., download grammar/vocab ebooks & 50 esl crosswords for $ 50 only, buy now - $ 50 dollars, english kids course ebooks, discounts!! for kids ebook packs 1,23, an even better deal has arrived. ebook packs 1, 2 and 3 only $ 59 dollars., , discounts!! for kids ebook packs 4,5,6, , esl grammar & vocabulary ebooks.,  , , math e-book - workbook 1 - for pre-k, kindergarten & 1st grade, our free education sites, , featured products,  , pronunciation: phonetic courseware, interactive: vocabulary and grammar quizzes & game cds, math products: math e-books & cds, mandarin chinese language learning tools,  , user feedback, , what we do at download-esl.com, product pages, hottest products, free stuff, site profile& links, about the esl-galaxy.com & download-esl.com, website focus, esl young learners, interactive exercises, products of download-esl.com]english grammar, vocabulary learning with self-study online quizzes[, self-study grammar quizzes- view all contents>>>, grammar quiz download- download over 150 self-grading quizzes- only- $ 17 usd, view all quizzes under this level »», prepositions in use. choose the correct prepositions to fill in the blanks., view all quizzes under this level »», business english negotiation vocabulary quiz., political systems : apart from democracy, what other forms of government exist?, adjectives, adverbs,comparatives,etc. all english grammar quizzes, esl lesson plan e-book - grammar & vocabulary e-book, download 5 free sample puzzles or download as zip, esl, , math workbook 1, zip, 100 printable exercises, preschool, kindergarten, grade 1, esl games world, esl kids lab, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com, chinese-ilab.com, english-4kids.com, esltower.com, englishmedialab.com, learn chinese online, , mp3, worksheets, flashcards, charts, video slides, powerpoint presentations, tongue twisters with mp3 audio, preview content>>, , grammar & vocabulary quizzes, kids, beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate & upper-intermediate/advanced level quizzes, , math workbooks 1, 2 and 3 are, zip, 100s of math printable exercises, preschool, kindergarten, grade 1 to 6th grade, , since its creation in 2005, the esl galaxy has rapidly expanded into a portal site with its own sub-sites. this six-in-one website includes : esltower.com, english-4kids.com, englishmedialab.com & download-esl.com and chinesefortravel.com. eslkidslab.com, eslgamesworld.com. with over 6556 resources, we lead the way with offering free resources for english teaching and learning. our resources range from printable worksheets to computer-assisted esl materials. our team is made up of full-time english teachers who are still creating and updating this website on an almost daily basis., website focus we have esl, efl, tefl,tesl,math, chinese, mandarin, download,ebook,e-book, podcasts, ipod video, esl resources,mp3,listening,learning materials,english,teaching materials,download videos,podcast video,esl lesson plans,grammar exercises,reading comprehension,ielts,language podcast,esl worksheets,exercises, online listening, printable worksheets,esl grammar, esl activities,ipod,esl video podcast, teach english,learn english, using ipod,podcast,tongue twisters, audio books, powerpoint,lesson plan powerpoint,vocabulary,powerpoint,reading, writing, interactive,powerpoint presentations,classroom,videocasts, audiocasts,mp3,download, print, printable,worksheets, english teachers,teach esl, efl, esol, tefl,tesol, , , , , esl young learners kids worksheets games for kids lessons phonics rescources flashcards video lessons interactive exercises grammar quizzes vocabulary quizzes video slides pronunciation exercises online practice exercises products of download-esl.com esl kids ebooks powerpoint packs math ebooks grammar/vocab ebooks esl courseware downloads home | copyright | contact | about][home, e-books, kids, powerpoint, games, videos, quizzes, math, , farm animal quiz. spell in the word of the animal picture you can see., english grammar quiz: beginner gap fill quiz. fill in the blanks from a choice of words., english vocabulary quiz: classroom objects quiz, esl quiz: questions and answer match. beginner matching quiz. match questions/answers.,  english animals and bird vocabulary quiz, questions and answer matching exercise for beginners, question word gap fill quiz. fill in the blanks with the correct choice of missing word., , , view all quizzes under this level »», adjectives and opposites. a matching about adjectives and their opposites., easy verbs quiz. a matching quiz where quiz taker matches verbs to their opposites., how many or how much? a quiz that helps students differentiate between how many and how much in questions., jobs matching. match jobs to the correct job description., , view all quizzes under this level »», comparatives and superlatives general knowledge quiz., first conditional fill in the blanks quiz., general knowledge english quiz, many or much. fill in the blanks quiz, past simple versus the future tense. comparing past and future. quiz requires user to fill in missing words., prepositions in use. choose the correct prepositions to fill in the blanks., , view all quizzes under this level »», adjectives followed by prepositions. adjectives quiz, appropriate response - matching quiz, appropriate response quiz - match question to appropriate response, british versus american english vocabulary quiz- match british english to american equivalent., british versus american english vocabulary match2., business english negotiation vocabulary quiz., , prefixes and suffixes : prefix multiple choice quiz., future forms-future perfect, future continuous, future simple- exercise-interactive grammar quiz, interactive vocabulary quiz about anti-social behaviour, vandalism, hooliganism,, upper-intermediate assorted grammar questions- conditionals, future forms and more, political systems : apart from democracy, what other forms of government exist?, , adjectives, adverbs,comparatives,etc. all english grammar quizzes, animals,bathroom,more here, esl games world : free esl fun games for teaching, printable board games,ppt games, card games, interactive games, hangman, jeopardy, snakes and ladders and game templates., esl kids lab: free printable worksheets for esl kids, phonics, flashcards, video lessons,games and more, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable esl worksheets, grammar & vocabulary worksheets in high pdf quality., chinese-ilab.com: learn chinese online for free, videos lessons, mp3 audio, pdf audio scripts and interactive games and quizzes for mandarin learning., english-4kids.com: resources for teaching kids,videos, worksheets, games, puzzles, and more for esl kids teachers and students., esltower.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable and interactive esl exercises, grammar & vocabulary worksheets and quizzes for all levels., englishmedialab.com: a free online resource site for students to learn english vocabulary and grammar using videos and interactive quizzes, learn chinese online : free chinese lessons online, free mp3 downloads, learn chinese, speak chinese, spoken mandarin lessons online, esl e-books, esl kids course, ppt products, game products, math downloads, mandarin chinese, kids ebooks, video lessons, worksheets, phonics, esl tongue twisters, free audio materials, esl downloads, quizzes online, about, copyright, sitemap, internal links, external links, contact us, kids worksheets, games for kids lessons, phonics rescources, flashcards, video lessons, vocabulary quizzes, video slides, pronunciation exercises, online practice exercises, powerpoint packs, math ebooks, grammar/vocab ebooks, esl courseware downloads]