[, download english powerpoint slides for teaching. this is one of the best teaching material a tefl professional can dream of having. you will teach english lessons with minimal effort and cut down on lesson planning time, while delivering excellent, engaging and fun english lessons. we have tested these presentations in small, medium, large and even one-to-one teaching environments and they work perfect. find out just why schools & tefl educators are buying these ppt & pps presentations. even if you know nothing about using powerpoint, we can do a quick video tutorial that will make you jump with excitement. and that's not all! what makes these presentations unlike the others? our presentations have sounds effects and audio recordings embedded in them, such that they become great tools for teaching listening & speaking, reading, pronunciation, grammar and vocabulary., samples : we have provided some free downloads for you to try. these presentations rock. also you can later customize the presentations to meet your full lesson plan needs. view tutorial. !! see the list of presentations below. preview all contents before you buy>>>, free powerpoint downloads- try these in your teaching & get more!!, , download immediately after purchase!, take a video tour, teach and practice over 500 essential english words in 50 fun crossword puzzles. students, especially young learners are crazy about word puzzles. using puzzles is a good way to teach and practice new vocabulary with the spellings of the words. the puzzles are in pdf formats which makes it easy to print and use. in most of the low level puzzles, we have provided fantastic graphics to further clarify vocabulary for visual learners. you don't even need to be an experienced teacher to use these puzzles. we provide answers to every puzzle. you are therefore going to download over 100 pages of puzzles and answers. why not try to click on the icon to take a video tour or simply download and try these samples., download 5 free sample puzzles or download as zip,  , view what you will learn before you buy>>, learn how to build language lessons on powerpoint, view the inside of the download cd., this is not necessarily the order in which this beginner course should be studied or taught., for pc only user: i want to use the slides on a pc only., for video ipod users : i want to use the slides on my ipod that plays videos., for pc only user: i want to use the slides on a pc only., for video ipod users : i want to use the slides on my ipod that plays videos., , ,  , , , worksheet ebooks- over 1000 pages of printable exercises in quality pdf. be the star teacher or school by delivering effective lessons. get printables and more in one bundle. never again stress out on lesson planning. looking for printable teaching materials? these printable worksheets will save you time. we are dedicated to making the lives of teachers a lot easier. we empower new and old teachers with fresh ideas for their lessons. there are esl/efl board games, grammar worksheets, vocabulary worksheets, kids worksheets, crossword and word search puzzles to teach beginners to advanced level students. »»check this out, , ,  , board games, card games, powerpoint games and interactive games are just some of the fun esl and education resources we offer. our games help students practice grammar, vocabulary, math skills and more. we also have a number of game templates which teachers and educators can easily use to create exercises for learning., (100 pdf exercises & 100 answer sheets), , math workbook 1 is a content-rich downloadable zip file with 100 printable exercises and 100 pages of answer sheets attached to each exercise. this product is suitable for preschool, kindergarten and grade 1. the product is available for instant download after purchase. not convinced? take a video tour by clicking on the e-book icon to your left., take a video tour - click here>>>, ,  , , , download a variety of grammar, vocabulary, phonetics, puzzles and education ebooks in pdf and zip file formats., our content-rich kids course can be used as a full-time esl school course or supplementary materials for teaching esl kids., teach english and other subjects with powerpoint presentations. ppt makes your teaching come alive.it's is a must for teachers., we have a collection of cool math resources for kindergarten, preschool, 1st to 6th grades. easy math teaching materials!, on this site, we have a collection of survival chinese materials for learning mandarin - ipod videos, flash videos, games, quizzes>>, here are some of the products you may also be interested in., ,  , teach english phonetic pronunciation using ipa. this course package offers a number of resources. there are mp3, worksheets, flashcards, charts, video slides, powerpoint presentations and more to make the teaching of pronunciation very easy. tongue twisters with mp3 audio and a bbc audio chart puts in your hand the most comprehensive pronunciation course. preview content>> remember this is an ebook which means you pay and download it immediately.no waiting time!!!,  , , grammar & vocabulary quizzes for free and commercial online self-access learning. computers have changed the way we study by offering students a great chance toward self-study. on this site we have put together key english grammar and vocabulary quizzes for self-tutoring. our quizzes include: multiple choice, gap fill, word puzzles with clues, spelling quizzes, matching quizzes, short answers and more. they can be used by both teachers and students in their learning and teaching of english grammar and vocabulary. to help you easily teach or study with them, we have divided the quizzes into all the stages of english learning i.e kids, beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate & upper-intermediate/advanced level quizzes. these quizzes will give students a command of key english grammar and vocabulary. while these quizzes are absolutely free for online use, you can buy them and keep for offline browsing. »»check this out, download english video slide lessons for use on ipods, pcs or laptops.these videos are lesson presentations built with powerpoint. learn & teach new vocabulary, pronunciation, spelling and sentence structures with videos that can be used for self-tutoring or teaching in larger classrooms. our videos are excellent tools for beginner, elementary and pre-intermediate level students. »»check this out, ,  , math workbooks 1, 2 and 3 are content-rich downloadable zip files with 100s of math printable exercises and 100s of pages of answer sheets attached to each exercise. this product is suitable for preschool, kindergarten and grade 1 to 6th grade. the product is available for instant download after purchase. not convinced? take a video tour by clicking on the e-book icon to your left.,  ,  , , chinese mp3 and audio scripts: download the mp3 audio and the audio transcripts. the audio are of the highest quality and very good for listening. chinese-ilab.com offers you the resources to help you learn chinese yourself. the audio contains useful phrases and vocabulary, clearly laid out with translations in pinyin chinese and chinese characters all geared towards facilitating your learning., chinese video lessons: download our highly instructive beginner and elementary video slide lessons for use on your ipods, iphones, pdas and mp4 devices. for ipod/iphone users, simply use itunes like you always do to sync them to your ipod/iphones. there are 20 communicative video lessons and 25 vocabulary video slides.,  , -your websites have helped me more than i can say. thank you for all the work you have done in developing them. yours sincerely,, david nebauer, australia 2007-3-15, -hello mr/ms kisito,, i am the elearning adviser to our skills for life faculty here at city of bristol college.  i have recently discovered your website for use by our students and would like to say how great it is. the materials are excellent and the links to other materials are very helpful. i have added a link to it from our own in-college vle (we use blackboard) so that students and tutors can find it when they are accessing materials from home and within college.  thank you for working so hard at such a useful resource.   kind regards, stella dearsley, e-learning advisor, we provide the most practical materials for esl/efl, chinese language and math education. our products are mostly esl and language related. our products are delivered as zip files, powerpoint, cd/dvd. teachers and students will find printable ebooks, powerpoint lessons, video slides and audio podcasts, esl worksheets,quizzes, audiobook readers, powerpoint and more resources for teaching and studying english as a second language.students with ipods can download ready-made ipod compatible podcasts for self-tutoring of english. mp3 for english listening with texts read at clear and reasonable speeds. your mobile phone, ipod, laptop, mp3 players are all language learning tools. download our videos, mp3 and interactive tests to help you learn english., since its creation in 2005, the esl galaxy has rapidly expanded into a portal site with its own sub-sites. this six-in-one website includes : esltower.com, english-4kids.com, englishmedialab.com & download-esl.com and chinesefortravel.com. eslkidslab.com, eslgamesworld.com. with over 6556 resources, we lead the way with offering free resources for english teaching and learning. our resources range from printable worksheets to computer-assisted esl materials. our team is made up of full-time english teachers who are still creating and updating this website on an almost daily basis., we have esl, efl, tefl,tesl,math, chinese, mandarin, download,ebook,e-book, podcasts, ipod video, esl resources,mp3,listening,learning materials,english,teaching materials,download videos,podcast video,esl lesson plans,grammar exercises,reading comprehension,ielts,language podcast,esl worksheets,exercises, online listening, printable worksheets,esl grammar, esl activities,ipod,esl video podcast, teach english,learn english, using ipod,podcast,tongue twisters, audio books, powerpoint,lesson plan powerpoint,vocabulary,powerpoint,reading, writing, interactive,powerpoint presentations,classroom,videocasts,, audiocasts,mp3,download, print, printable,worksheets,, english teachers,teach esl, efl, esol, tefl,tesol][, powerpoint for esl,efl educators, teach english with esl powerpoint slides- with embedded audio, buy all 50 ppts now for only $ 25 usd,  , 50 esl powerpoint games & templates : "my students can't get enough.", buy now for only $ 59 us dollars,  , 50 esl pdf crossword puzzles - for beginners, elementary to pre-intermediate levels., buy only for $ 20 us dollars, , powerpoint video tutorials - for foreign language teachers- $ 26 usd only!, quick view of our esl powerpoint downloads., powerpoint slides for beginner lesson planning & teaching, powerpoint slides for elementary levels lesson planning & teaching, powerpoint slides for pre-intermediate lesson planning & teaching, buy now! 25 dollars - 50 ppt lesson plans for your beginner to preintermediate classes,  , esl grammar & vocabulary ebooks., buy only for $ 24 us dollars, games: esl games & templates, , math e-book - workbook 1 - for pre-k, kindergarten & 1st grade, buy now! only 23 us dollars, our free education sites, free games to go with these materials, esl fun interactive games teaching & learning, free printable esl board and card games, free powerpoint games for esl teaching, free ms word & powerpoint game templates - make your own games, , featured products,  , pronunciation: phonetic courseware, interactive: vocabulary and grammar quizzes & game cds, math products: math e-books & cds, mandarin chinese language learning tools,  , user feedback, , what we do at download-esl.com, product pages, hottest products, free stuff, site profile& links, about the esl-galaxy.com & download-esl.com, website focus, esl young learners, interactive exercises, products of download-esl.com]esl powerpoint downloads, lesson plans, ppt video tutorials[, free powerpoint downloads- try these in your teaching & get more!!, birthday- how old are you?, at the zoo- what animal is this? - also good for spelling, comparing prices of pets- expensive etc., fruits- what fruit do you like?, view over 50 esl powerpoint lessons you can download>>>, 50 esl powerpoint games designed with 4 amazing game ideas, templates provided, video tutorials included!, , instant download!, beginners to advanced level, download 5 free sample puzzles or download as zip, my abc-english alphabet, my favourite colour, s, my family-, farm animals, my toys, - where's my teddy, clothes, -, zoo animals, fast food, rooms at home, days of the week, my pets, -, countries, what fruit is this?, -weather-, my birthday, shapes & colour, an apple, two apples, my body, country names memory, -, time, drinks-, jobs and occupations, food quantifiers: a piece of, a bar of, the staff room furniture, -, the living room, vegetables, meat and meals, months of the year, prepositions of place, -, helping at home, school subjects., -weather and clothes-, kitchen objects, popular sports, bathroom, bedroom, esl, , board games, card games, powerpoint games and interactive games, , math workbook 1, zip, 100 printable exercises, preschool, kindergarten, grade 1, esl games world, esl kids lab, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com, chinese-ilab.com, english-4kids.com, esltower.com, englishmedialab.com, learn chinese online, , mp3, worksheets, flashcards, charts, video slides, powerpoint presentations, tongue twisters with mp3 audio, preview content>>, , grammar & vocabulary quizzes, kids, beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate & upper-intermediate/advanced level quizzes, , math workbooks 1, 2 and 3 are, zip, 100s of math printable exercises, preschool, kindergarten, grade 1 to 6th grade, , since its creation in 2005, the esl galaxy has rapidly expanded into a portal site with its own sub-sites. this six-in-one website includes : esltower.com, english-4kids.com, englishmedialab.com & download-esl.com and chinesefortravel.com. eslkidslab.com, eslgamesworld.com. with over 6556 resources, we lead the way with offering free resources for english teaching and learning. our resources range from printable worksheets to computer-assisted esl materials. our team is made up of full-time english teachers who are still creating and updating this website on an almost daily basis., website focus we have esl, efl, tefl,tesl,math, chinese, mandarin, download,ebook,e-book, podcasts, ipod video, esl resources,mp3,listening,learning materials,english,teaching materials,download videos,podcast video,esl lesson plans,grammar exercises,reading comprehension,ielts,language podcast,esl worksheets,exercises, online listening, printable worksheets,esl grammar, esl activities,ipod,esl video podcast, teach english,learn english, using ipod,podcast,tongue twisters, audio books, powerpoint,lesson plan powerpoint,vocabulary,powerpoint,reading, writing, interactive,powerpoint presentations,classroom,videocasts, audiocasts,mp3,download, print, printable,worksheets, english teachers,teach esl, efl, esol, tefl,tesol, , , , , esl young learners kids worksheets games for kids lessons phonics rescources flashcards video lessons interactive exercises grammar quizzes vocabulary quizzes video slides pronunciation exercises online practice exercises products of download-esl.com esl kids ebooks powerpoint packs math ebooks grammar/vocab ebooks esl courseware downloads home | copyright | contact | about][home, e-books, kids, powerpoint, games, videos, quizzes, math, , lesson- birthday- how old are you?, lesson- at the zoo- what animal is this? - also good for spelling, lesson- comparing prices of pets- expensive etc., lesson- fruits- what fruit do you like?, lesson- weather- what's the weather like?, 50 esl powerpoint games designed with 4 amazing game ideas - jepardy, olympic jeopardy, hidden pictures & taboos. , templates provided, create customized games for your lesson plans. video tutorials included!, no more boredom! turn up the energy level in your class., available for instant download! no waiting!, suitable for all levels – beginners to advanced level esl /efl students, lesson 1- my abc-english alphabet-, lesson 2- my favourite colours- learn colours, red, blue etc., lesson 3- my family- people in the family, father, mother., lesson 3- farm animals- learn animal names, lesson-5- my toys - where's my teddy?kids toys, lesson-6- clothes- what is she wearing?, lesson-7- zoo animals- what animal is this? tiger, lion etc., lesson-8- fast food- what do you want to eat?, lesson-9- rooms at home. bedroom, living room-, lesson-10-days of the week-what day is today?, lesson-11-my pets- what pet do you like best?, lesson-12-countries- where are you from?, lesson-13-what fruit is this? it's an apple., lesson-14-weather- what's the weather like today?, lesson-15-my birthday- how old are you?, lesson-16-shapes & colour- what shape is this?, lesson-17-an apple, two apples- singular vs. plural, lesson-18-my body- parts of the body, , lesson 1- country names memory- using national hymns & flags, lesson 2- time - what time is it?, lesson 3- drinks- something to drink., lesson 3- jobs and occupations- learn jobs vocabulary, lesson-5- food quantifiers: a piece of, a bar of, lesson-6- the staff room furniture- office furniture vocabulary, lesson-7- the living room - is there a tv in your living room? tv, sofa etc., lesson-8- vegetables -vegetable vocabulary, carrot, onion etc., lesson-9- meat and meals . something to eat, lesson-10-months of the year -what day is today?, lesson-11-prepositions of place- on, under, behind, lesson-12-helping at home- how do you help at home?, lesson-13-school subjects. what subjects do you study at school?, lesson-14-weather and clothes- it's rainy, please take an umbrella, lesson-15-kitchen objects - cooker, etc., lesson-16-popular sports - what sport do you like?, lesson-17-bathroom- what's in your bathroom, lesson-18-bedroom objects, bed, wardrobe, lesson-19- dining room, what's in the dining room?, , lesson 1-comparing prices using pet vocabulary, lesson 2-comparatives- which country is bigger?, lesson 3- superlatives- which country is the biggest?, lesson 4- weather forecast for tomorrow?, lesson 5- seasons and weather- talk about seasons, lesson 6-olympic sports- what sports are played at the olympics?, lesson 7- sport equipment- what do we play football with?, lesson 8- summer vacation- talk about summer activities, lesson 9- travel plans- using going to for future, lesson 10- travel documents- passport visa etc., lesson 11- computer accessories, lesson 12- office machines- telephone, fax etc., lesson 13- duty and responsibilty- police officer , i have to fight crime, lesson 14- buying a camera- dialogue sentences, lesson 15- buying a camera- listening with sound effect, lesson 16- buying an mp3 player- dialogue sentences, lesson 17- buying an mp3 player- listening dialogue, lesson 18-electronic devices- sd cards, projector etc., lesson 19- basic polite expressions, lesson 20- electrical & electronic devices, esl games world : free esl fun games for teaching, printable board games,ppt games, card games, interactive games, hangman, jeopardy, snakes and ladders and game templates., esl kids lab: free printable worksheets for esl kids, phonics, flashcards, video lessons,games and more, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable esl worksheets, grammar & vocabulary worksheets in high pdf quality., chinese-ilab.com: learn chinese online for free, videos lessons, mp3 audio, pdf audio scripts and interactive games and quizzes for mandarin learning., english-4kids.com: resources for teaching kids,videos, worksheets, games, puzzles, and more for esl kids teachers and students., esltower.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable and interactive esl exercises, grammar & vocabulary worksheets and quizzes for all levels., englishmedialab.com: a free online resource site for students to learn english vocabulary and grammar using videos and interactive quizzes, learn chinese online : free chinese lessons online, free mp3 downloads, learn chinese, speak chinese, spoken mandarin lessons online, grammar games - jeopardy, hangman, wheel games, snakes and ladders and more>>>, vocabulary games - memory games, maze games, snakes and ladders, hangman and more>>>, esl online games directory - have fun teaching and learning english with your students, printable board games for esl classrooms, printable card games for the esl classrooms, make your own games with templates, esl powerpoint jeopardy games, esl powerpoint olympic jeopardy games, esl powerpoint taboo games, make your own powerpoint games from our templates, esl powerpoint game templates, esl card game templates, esl baord game templates, esl e-books, esl kids course, ppt products, game products, math downloads, mandarin chinese, kids ebooks, video lessons, worksheets, phonics, esl tongue twisters, free audio materials, esl downloads, quizzes online, about, copyright, sitemap, internal links, external links, contact us, kids worksheets, games for kids lessons, phonics rescources, flashcards, video lessons, vocabulary quizzes, video slides, pronunciation exercises, online practice exercises, powerpoint packs, math ebooks, grammar/vocab ebooks, esl courseware downloads]