[let a park ranger be your guide! the national park service app is the brand new official app for all 420+ national parks. find interactive maps, tours of park places, on-the-ground accessibility information, and more. the app was created by national park service staff—people who know national parks—to help you make the most of your visit. with all of these parks and a brand new app, it will take some time to finish creating content for each park. if you don’t find what you’re looking for now, check back regularly as our rangers work to complete the experience for each of our parks. unlike other apps, nps mobile takes authoritative information from park rangers and combines it with a great suite of features. here’s a quick look at some of those features. interactive maps: each park has a detailed map that includes points of interest, along with roads, trails, and other information to plan your trip. park tours: what is there to see? self-guided tours take you to interesting places in the park. discover popular destinations as well as places off the beaten track. it’s like having a ranger by your side to guide your trip, giving you suggestions for places to go, directions to get there, and things to do once you arrive. amenities: it's the little—and sometimes not so little—things that can make or break a park visit. learn where you can find and access transportation, food, restrooms, shopping, and more. accessibility: the app offers a fully accessible experience with tools to benefit visitors with accessibility needs, such as audio descriptions of exhibits along trails and roads and in visitor centers. offline use: no internet access? no problem! you can download content from entire parks for offline use. it’s especially handy if you’re exploring remote areas in parks or concerned about data limits. share your visit: tell your friends and family about the fun things you did by creating and sharing virtual postcards with scenes from the park. things to do: what do you want to do in a park—hike? take a bus tour or scenic drive? visit a museum? join a ranger program? become a junior ranger? discover all the fun, entertaining, and educational activities parks have to offer. news, alerts & events: what’s happening? get news and events for all parks—or selected parks of your choosing. and that’s just a start! the nps mobile app also includes passport stamp locations, fees, visitor center hours and locations, and more. this one single app includes every one of the 420+ sites in the national park system, no matter how big or small. here are just some of the parks you'll find: acadia, arches, big bend, bryce canyon, crater lake, death valley, everglades, glacier, golden gate, grand canyon, grand teton, great smokies, joshua tree, mammoth cave, mount rainier, mount rushmore, olympic, redwoods, rocky mountain, sequoia and king canyon, shenandoah, statue of liberty, yellowstone, yosemite, and zion., version 1.3, stability enhancements and other minor improvements.  we value your feedback - please leave a review to tell us how we're doing., 419 ratings, honestly this is one of my favorite apps. even if i’m not traveling, i like to load the app and explore parks from afar. i love how much love and energy went into this app. it’s obvious that the content comes from people who love the parks as much as we do. here’s what i’d love to see: improve offline access: being able to save parks for offline use is awesome. however, the app spends a really long time trying to load when you don’t have internet access before finally giving an error message and then loading after a delay. i wish the app would start in offline mode (offline is default) and then access the internet once the app is loaded. sort by ability or activity level: i wish i didn’t have to load every single item in a list to see if a trail or thing is ada accessible. maybe add an icon to the items on a list… or add a filter. passport stamp locations: i love this feature. can the items on this list be clickable? take me to the entry for that visitors center, so i can find info on accessing it. more pictures: i’m disabled and physical access can be an issue. it’s so cool to be able to see places i’ll never be able to visit. show me the super advanced hikes i’ll never get to. and show us more wildlife we might have trouble seeing on our visit! i’ve got a million suggestions but you all are busy people. thanks for making a cool app. looking forward to updates., overall, it’s pretty handy (and beautiful!). please add an option to upload the various park passes, such as access, senior, etc. (and to add more than 1 pass per app for families that may be traveling with various elderly, disabled, 4th graders, etc., without every single family member needing to have the app). i understand verification of identity can still be requested on site (id, driver’s license), but in the 21st century, who still carries around a physical copy of every card acquired through the years? i always keep my driver’s license, a debit card, and a credit card on me, but that’s it! i would hate to miss the opportunity to visit a park with my lifetime pass because i don’t still carry around the 20+ physical cards i’ve accumulated over the years. i keep my own digital copy of my pass (and have proof of identity), but i don’t know if the entrances will accept this in lieu of the physical card., the new national parks app is really great, significant improvement over the previous version. the cards for each park are nice and show most of the info you need— but afaict there is no info on the jr ranger program. there is a section for passport stamps on each parks card, but not jr ranger. some parks let you print the booklet ahead of time, while others require you to be in person to get the booklet. some parks let you mail or email the booklet and get a badge through the mail. some do cards instead of booklets. there is a lot of info that could be added under a jr ranger heading for each park. having a way to track which badges you have earned would be helpful too. or maybe jr ranger could get its own app!? 😃 that would make a lot of families who plan vacations around national park badges very happy., the developer, national park service, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. for more information, see the developer’s privacy policy., the following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:, privacy practices may vary, for example, based on the features you use or your age. learn more, english, nps kenai fjords, nps audio description tours, nps independence junior ranger, national park trail guide, campendium - rv & tent camping, national parks pocket maps, rv life - rv gps & campgrounds, harvest hosts, freeroam - boondocking & more][national park service 4+, the official app of 420+ parks, national park service, designed for ipad, screenshots, description, what’s new, ratings and reviews, awesome start. hoping for many more features., pass upload please!, great, but missing jr ranger info!, app privacy, data not linked to you, information, more by this developer, you might also like]‎national park service on the app store[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, #56 in travel, #56 in travel, 4.3 • 419 ratings, 4.3 • 419 ratings, free, free, ipad, iphone, , , , usage data, diagnostics, developer website, app support, privacy policy, developer website, app support, privacy policy]