[welcome to the community, buddy. we promise never to spam you., please, try another combination., figma has announced the first-ever figma community awards to celebrate plugins, widgets, and files that make the community happy., lunacy is almost like figma, but faster. it is a native app, not a sluggish electron-wrapped browser pretending to be an app. and it can work offline., free icons, illustrations, and photos for your google documents will always be at a click distance with the icons8 add-on., learn the basics of animation in adobe after effects. in a few easy-to-follow steps, we will make an eye in a static image blink., figma, adobe xd, and sketch are the top-3 brands in the ux/ui design world. but how to select the tool to fit your needs and budget? are there any alternatives?, lunacy has everything designers use in other similar apps. but routine tasks will take less effort., check out how designers use illustrations in mobile and web interfaces and get a spark of creativity for your next project., smart upscaler has got a unique face processing feature. it now enhances faces like no other similar service and can enlarge images up to 64 megapixels., get the largest sets of free, high-quality, and consistent graphics in one click: icons, photos, and illustrations. right in figma., in this tutorial, you’ll learn how to create a holographic effect in your designs., we see tens and hundreds of icons on our computer and phone screens every day. but do you know the stories behind these icons?, running a blog takes a lot of work. it means staying constantly updated on the latest trending topics, marketing trends, and seo best practices. and that’s no, face generator is nominated for the golden kitty award on product hunt! your support means a lot!, we’ve already shown you some weird icon requests. now it’s time to show some challenging ones., welcome to the community, buddy. we promise never to spam you., see all posts, icons8 blog, ][subscribe to icons8 newsletter, figma community awards 2022. show your love!, how to migrate from figma to lunacy, google docs add-on to make your google docs look professional, beginner’s guide to animation in after effects, comparing lunacy to figma, sketch, and adobe xd, news, 8 new lunacy features to boost your productivity, design inspiration: trendy illustrations in ui, smart upscaler 3.0: larger images, better face enhancement, popular, tags, figma and figjam plugin by icons8, how to create a holographic effect, how legendary icons were born, 7 ux best practices for designing your blog posts in 2022, make face generator the product of the year, bad apple design, subscribe to icons8 newsletter, design assets, apps, request, about icons8, online tools, for developers, support, licenses]graphic design tips from icons8 | blog.icons8.com[][design, how-to, icons, music, photo, tools, ux, design, design news, how-to, icons, illustrations, music, new tips, photo, tool tips, tools, uncategorized, ux, news, popular, tags, media kit, become an author, about icons8, forums, product hunt, icons, vector illustrations, stock photos, royalty-free music, ai-generated faces, lunacy, pichon icons, figma plugin, google docs add-on, photoshop plugin, illustrator plugin, icon, lunacy feature, in short, business model, advertising, affiliate program, smart upscaler, background remover, anonymizer, face generator, mega creator, api documentation, omg-img, line awesome, forum, faq, contact us, free license, paid license]