[free math games online for children to review varied skills in a fun way. our games are interactive and fun. games by topic : multiplication games | addition games| subtraction games | telling time games | fraction games |,  ,  , , play free preschool and kindergarten math games for kids. fun math activities for kindergarten, math games for 1st grade students to play games and practice different math topics. maths games for class 1, 2nd grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems. maths games for 2nd class, 3rd grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems. maths games for class 3, 4th grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems. fun math activities for 4th graders, 5th grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems. cool math games for 5th graders, 6th grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems. math jeopardy 6th grade., 7th grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems. math games for grade 7,  , , this page features a collection of curated math games by grades. children will learn math in a fun through the medium of games like: memory games, crocodile games, matching games, car race games, pirate games, dinosaur games, zombie games and more. each game is interactive and fun. at the end of each game students can instantly check their perfomance. these games can be played as classroom games or as supplementary homeschooling materials which parents can readily use. have you ever been drawn into a world of crocodiles and asked to find your way home while trying your luck with the random outcome of a dice? if not, try out our crocodile games series. but you may be a pirate game fan, car race fan or any other game type; we have it all on this website. have fun playing while learning with fun for math games & math games cool math games., the games on this page are varied. as you click on each link, you are taken into a world of activities that are based on the given game theme. let’s see what each game is about in brief -, ,  ,  , , math asteroid games this game is based on the concept of objects falling from outer space back to earth. if these objects reach earth before your strike them, they may cause a lot of damage. what students are expected to do to save the planet is to answer as many questions as possible correctly in order to delay the asteroid on its path to earth. the game is quite fun and speed is everything. you may not end up beating the asteroids but you may delay their impact on earth. the ultimate goal is to solve as many problems as possible and earn a lot of points at the end of the game. this game can be played in the classroom as a group game or at home as an individual review test. have fun saving the earth., math wheel of fortune games the idea of a wheel of fortune is known to most of us. basically, it is about spinning a wheel and earning points. in a casino, these points translate to money. however, in the current game, children spin the wheel and solve math problems in order to earn these points. the reward goes to the player or team that gets the most points at the end of the game. this is modulated by how many math problems you solved and got right. this game is so much fun and can be played by an individual or in a group., math games u.k. - year 1 | year 2 | year 3 | year 4 | year 5 | year 6 | year 7 | year 8, u.s. - kindergarten | 1st grade | 2nd grade | 3rd grade| 4th grade| 5th grade | 6th grade | 7th grade, there are several websites for math games out there, however some only focus on free math games and hardly include any other resources. we have gone beyond games to include other activities like printable worksheets, online quizzes (without a game integrated), puzzles, flashcards, blogs and more. our games are also of a wide variety and we are committed to constant updates on the latest game concept out there. with your support, we figured out the trends that teachers and parents love and your feedback enabled us to come up with this rich collection. with the death of adobe flash, we had to make a quick shift and come up with html5 game versions that are compatible for mobile devices and across all web browsers. we have not completed the process yet; work is still in progress on recreating the exact game templates that existed before. so far, a lot of topics have been covered for each grade and our users are liking it. why we focus so much on math games is because math is a subject that most people struggled or still struggle with. although we had a chance to avoid the subject completely at some stage, it is impossible when you have kids. your level of weakness in the subject gets even worse over time and you may be surprised how quickly your kids have improved over time. it makes teaching them very difficult in turn. given this situation, you may end up unconsciously discouraging your kids from loving this subject which is actually quite fun. our goal is to help parents through this huddle, by providing them with free alternatives of teaching math in a way that increases the interest in the subject. children are not only playing math games here, but are also solving math problems. this combination is great for homeschooling kids as well as for boosting the excitement in a math classroom. in future we are considering delivering customized games for schools and educators at large. how this will work is, a parent or school may contact us for custom games on any math topic. based on the resources we have in terms of templates; we shall go ahead and create these activities and host them on this website. once this is done, we shall share the link with whoever made the request. we are also going to append other resources to our games. on this website as mentioned earlier, there are worksheets and puzzles to complement exercises on each topic. one thing we are also doing, is creating a robust math video platform through our kidsmathtv youtube channel. it is worth noting that our games are more or less like quizzes that test skills already learned. if you don’t master these skills yet, it makes sense to head over to the videos on youtube and select the topic you need to study. afterwards, take a test to further improve and consolidate math skills learned., we offer pdf printables in the highest quality., fun games for teaching maths, parents, teachers and educators can now present the knowledge using these vividly presented short videos. simply let the kids watch and learn., quizzes are designed around the topics of addition, subtraction, geometry, shapes, position, fractions, multiplication, division, arithmetic, algebra etc., access the materials by looking at topics - addition, subtraction, multiplication, geometry, trigonometry, algebra, decimals, division and more.,  ][free math games | fun math games online, , kindergarten math games, , , 1st grade math games, , , 2nd grade math games, 3rd grade math games, 4th grade math games, 5th grade math games, 6th grade math games, 7th grade math games, fun for math games | math games cool math games, websites for math games, math practice for kids, printable exercises, interactive math]free math games | fun math games online[multiplication games, addition games, subtraction games, telling time games, fraction games, play all, play all, play all, play all, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, math snakes and ladders, math war games, math zombie games, math crocodile games, math memory games, math dinosaur games, math basketball games, math jungle board game, math asteroid games, math wheel of fortune games, year 1, year 2, year 3, year 4, year 5, year 6, year 7, year 8, kindergarten, 1st grade, 2nd grade, 3rd grade, 4th grade, 5th grade, 6th grade, 7th grade, websites for math games, websites for math games, free math games, websites for math games][home, games, quizzes, worksheets, grades, topics, videos, apps, downloads, new, math snakes and ladders: this is the century’s old board game which children play in their spare time using a dice and a board that contains snakes and ladders. each time a player rolls the dice, they get the chance to move places forward until they get to a final destination. however, getting there is not as easy as it sounds, there are snakes that could swallow you and take you back to start., math war games:  this game is based on a war themed board game. players go through a war zone and avoid being shot or stepping on a land mine by answering as many questions as possible correctly. the random outcome of the dice also determines how many spaces players will move., math zombie games: these are also board games with players solving problems and moving spaces as fast as possible and avoiding falling on a zombie that could eat them up. the game is fun and the theme is suitable for halloween., math crocodile games: these are so much fun. a frog is attempting to cross a swamp ridden with crocodiles. to do this, you have to save the frog’s life by solving as many questions as possible correctly. this game is so much fun and interactive and players will score points as they play. avoid the crocodiles though., math memory games: nothing compares to memory games especially when players have to solve math problems and retain the answer as well as the location of those answers under covered tiles. these games are suitable for reviewing just about any math topic., math dinosaur games: oh yes! you guessed it. these games take you back to prehistoric times through interactive board games. the main obstacle here are the voracious dinosaurs ready to devour you as you attempt to go through the jungle. try solving as many math problems as possible correctly., math basketball games: here, you earn points shooting hoops. to do so, students solve math problems correctly and get a chance to score a hoop. if you get it wrong, you miss the target. this is a basketball game for math pros., math jungle board game: the jungle, a little girl and wild beasts is a recipe for disaster if you come to think of it. the player has to help a little girl get home without being eaten by these animals by rolling the dice and answering as many questions as possible correctly. this game is a board game that covers a lot of k-12 math topics.    , preschool/kindergarten, grade 1 worksheets., grade 2 - 6 worksheets, penalty shooting game, en garde duel game, fling the teacher fun game, more more games., math worksheets, math video slides, math games, math quizzes, math downloads, multiplication, comparison, geometry, algebra & more, , subtraction games, multiplication quizzes, geometry exercises, video lessons]