[welcome to the community, buddy. we promise never to spam you., please, try another combination., design tutorials, guides, and handy tips, lunacy is almost like figma, but faster. it is a native app, not a sluggish electron-wrapped browser pretending to be an app. and it can work offline., learn the basics of animation in adobe after effects. in a few easy-to-follow steps, we will make an eye in a static image blink., lunacy has everything designers use in other similar apps. but routine tasks will take less effort., in this tutorial, you’ll learn how to create a holographic effect in your designs., let’s design christmas and new year visuals for instagram stories. we’ll use lunacy, a 100% free design app with built-in graphics, and woolly illustrations, check out this list of top 10 mistakes that people make when designing sign-up forms and follow the ui tips to avoid them., dribbble is a great place for inspiration. and it is also the platform where creatives meet their clients., want to stand out on halloween? go 3d!, animation adds dynamics and variety to the design., digital designers are widely using the neon effect to engage users and convey the mood., according to statista, there are around 4 billion daily email users. expect to it number climb to 4.3 billion by 2023., the rise of video content on platforms like youtube has been huge for content creators. according to research by visual capitalist, youtube is the second most v, 3d illustrations look great almost everywhere. ready-made illustrations grab users’ attention and save a designer’s time. but what if you need to ad, in this tutorial, you’ll learn how to create a paper cut-out effect in lunacy. we will be mainly using the vector tool and shadows. watch this video or follow, how to ensure diversity and representation in visual content? that’s quite a serious challenge for designers, bloggers, social media marketers, and all the re, icons8 blog, ][subscribe to icons8 newsletter, how-to, how to migrate from figma to lunacy, beginner’s guide to animation in after effects, 8 new lunacy features to boost your productivity, how to create a holographic effect, how to design a christmas instagram story, 10 practical ui/ux tips to improve your sign-up forms, how to design a beautiful dribbble shot, designing a halloween landing page with 3d illustrations, how to make an animated illustration in after effects, how to create a neon effect in lunacy, how to optimize email communication with clients: 6 tips for beginners, how to edit youtube videos for higher rankings and engagement?, how to recolor 3d illustrations in photoshop, how to create a paper cut-out effect in lunacy, how to ensure diversity in your designs, design assets, apps, request, about icons8, online tools, for developers, support, licenses]how-to archives - blog.icons8.com[][design, how-to, icons, music, photo, tools, ux, design, design news, how-to, icons, illustrations, music, new tips, photo, tool tips, tools, uncategorized, ux, news, popular, tags, media kit, become an author, about icons8, forums, product hunt, icons, vector illustrations, stock photos, royalty-free music, ai-generated faces, lunacy, pichon icons, figma plugin, google docs add-on, photoshop plugin, illustrator plugin, icon, lunacy feature, in short, business model, advertising, affiliate program, smart upscaler, background remover, anonymizer, face generator, mega creator, api documentation, omg-img, line awesome, forum, faq, contact us, free license, paid license]