[welcome to the community, buddy. we promise never to spam you., please, try another combination., how to ensure diversity and representation in visual content? that’s quite a serious challenge for designers, bloggers, social media marketers, and all the rest who regularly need custom photo materials. traditional photo stocks are of little help here: those images tell the stories of stock photographers, not yours. shooting your own photos seems like the only way out. but it is costly and time-consuming: starting from finding models, the right location or studio, make-up, and all that. well, we’d rather say “seemed”, because we have a solution now: you can create a brand new photo in mega creator., mega creator is an online graphic editor where you create pro-looking collages from tens of thousands of photos of people, objects, animals, and backgrounds. we have taken all of them in similar environments (lighting, distance, etc.). so all the photos in the mega creator gallery perfectly match each other., edit in mega creator, you can find images of people of different ages, skin tones, and body types. for this, you can use a special filter, where you can select the required gender, age, race, hair color, and more. also, to speed up the search, you can use categories that will let you find people drinking coffee, talking over the phone, doing sports, etc., filtering photos in mega creator, the gallery continuously grows. while casting models, the icons8 photo team pays special attention to diversity and representation., edit in mega creator, edit in mega creator, another great thing about mega creator is its integration with generated photos, an online stock of diverse, incredibly realistic headshots generated by ai. you can filter these 500,000 photos of people of all colors and ages using a variety of parameters., a view of ai faces in mega creator, moreover, in mega creator you will find massive libraries of icons, editable vector images, as well as raster and even 3d illustrations with diverse characters that you can use to visualize your stories., edit in mega creator, edit in mega creator, you can start with a blank page. just select one of the preset canvas sizes or set your own. then drop the required images onto the canvas and arrange them as needed. also, you can:, working in the app is super easy. it’s like playing lego with photos instead of plastic bricks., try mega creator now, icons8, a library of about 130k+ icons and clip art images, offline app and plugins to drag’n’drop icons and clip art to any design tools, moose, the big collection of high-quality stock photos, ouch! , a library of vector illustrations and collages, background remover, ai-based online tool for removing background from any photo, mega creator, online tool for creating visual content from pre-made elements, fugue, royalty free music for videos of any kind, lunacy, free graphic design software with built-in design resources, smart upscaler, image upscaler to enlarge and enhance images using ai, generated photos, unique, worry-free model photos generated by ai, icons8 blog, ][subscribe to icons8 newsletter, how to ensure diversity in your designs, how to ensure diversity in your designs, a solution for lack of diversity in designs, try tools for creators by the icons8 team:, related posts, the cat’s meow: free animal clipart and icons in 20 design styles, music to your ears: fugue, free stock music service is launched, lunacy 4.0. free graphic design software with built-in design resources, lunacy tutorial: neumorphism in ui design, design assets, apps, request, about icons8, online tools, for developers, support, licenses]how to ensure diversity in your designs - blog.icons8.com[people of different ages, skin tones, and body types, gender, age, race, hair color, and more, 500,000 photos of people of all colors and ages, icons, editable, vector images, raster, 3d illustrations with diverse characters][design, how-to, icons, music, photo, tools, ux, design, design news, how-to, icons, illustrations, music, new tips, photo, tool tips, tools, uncategorized, ux, news, popular, tags, media kit, become an author, about icons8, use hundreds of templates for all popular social media: instagram, facebook, twitter, youtube, pinterest, customize every element of a template, upload your own images and mix them up with icons8 graphics, remove backgrounds from uploaded photos in a single click, forums, product hunt, icons, vector illustrations, stock photos, royalty-free music, ai-generated faces, lunacy, pichon icons, figma plugin, google docs add-on, photoshop plugin, illustrator plugin, icon, lunacy feature, in short, business model, advertising, affiliate program, smart upscaler, background remover, anonymizer, face generator, mega creator, api documentation, omg-img, line awesome, forum, faq, contact us, free license, paid license]