[, , , esl classroom fun games: they simply rock! have fun with wheel of fortune, quiz shows, billionaire games., revision games for level 1 - 6 primary learners - you have to try these games, , esltower.com : many free english grammar & vocabulary exercises for teachers and students, , esltower.com : many free english grammar & vocabulary exercises for teachers and students, unit  intro – alphabet & phonics resources. , unit   1 – greetings - hello, unit   2 – what’s your name?, unit   3 – how old are you?, unit   4 – numbers – how many?, unit   5 a – colours – what colour is it?, unit 5 b - colours vocabulary, unit 5 c - green monster colours lesson, unit   6 – fruits – i like apples., unit  7 – body – i have a head., unit  8–  actions  – i can, i can’t., unit  1 – animals – farms animals. , unit   2 – family members, unit  3 – school bag, unit   4 – actions – can and can’t  , unit   5 – shapes & sizes, unit   6 – demonstrative pronouns – this/that/these/those, unit   7 – numbers – 10 to 100, unit  8 – toys – where is it?, unit  9 –  days of the week and weekly activities, unit 10 -   weather – what’s the weather like?, unit 11 -   food – what do you want to eat, unit  1 – pets : why do you like dogs?, unit   2a – time – what time is it?, unit   2b – time – what time is it?, unit   3 – months & birthdays – when is your birthday?, unit   4 – jobs – what people do., unit  5  – actions – what are you doing?, unit   6 – transport – how do you come to school?, unit   7 – clothes – what are you wearing today?, unit   8 –  where is it? – at home, unit  9a – vegetables – how much are the carrots?, unit  9b – vegetables – extra vegetable vocabulary lesson - cauliflower, broccoli etc., unit  10 –  weather  and clothes  - put on your sunglasses., unit 11 -  zoo – what does a panda look like?, esltower.com : many free english grammar & vocabulary exercises for teachers and students, want more materials? check out esl galaxy for all esl lesson plan needs,  ][games for learning & teaching esl kids, esl fun interactive games teaching & learning, free interactive fun games for classrooms - goodbye classroom boredom!, free printable esl board and card games, free powerpoint games for esl teaching, free ms word & powerpoint game templates - make your own games, esl communicative games for classroom learning, reading, writing/spelling games, video lessons by unit & level, level 1 course video tutorials, level 2 course video tutorials, level 3 course video tutorials, recommended extra resources, our esl websites - we endorse the contents of the following sites]esl kids games, games and ideas for teaching esl kids, tefl games, classroom games, grammar,vocabulary games[grammar games, fun games, vocabulary games, esl online games directory, english lessons for children, esl classroom fun games:, revision games for level 1 - 6 primary learners, make your own games, 1- hot-seat, 3-, mallet mallet:, 4-, chinese whispers:, 5-, miming games, 6- fly swatting:, 7-, steal, swap, bust and number card game, 8-, get rich or die trying, 9- freeze!or stop! ball game:, 10-, hop and say + rocks, paper & scissors, 11-, talking volleyball:, 12 - dice game, 13 - word association game, 14- number game:, 15 - guessing game, 16- swap seats:, 17- musical chairs, 1-, running dictation:, 2-, running dictation for large classes and young learners' classes, 3-, i spy something, skills-, 4-, memory or concentration game, 5-, spelling relay:, 6-, word searching games, 7-, mallet mallet, 8-, chopstick relay, 9- spelling bee:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, esl lesson plan center, board games, grammar worksheets, vocabulary worksheets, theme-based lesson plans, pronunciation lessons, crossword puzzles, word search puzzles, festivals and holidays worksheets, travel english, writing worksheets and templates, word formation worksheets, song worksheets, movie worksheets, math4children.com, kiz school, english media lab:, esl downloads:, esl games world, esl kids][home, lessons, worksheets, fun games, tutorials, powerpoint, flashcards, extra resources main teachers parents downloads kids lab students tips shop links, main, teachers, parents, downloads, kids lab, students, tips, shop, links, are your kids getting bored of learning? are you running out of ideas for teaching your kids? we are here to energize your lessons with a variety of games. below are interactive fun games for classroom teaching, online interactive games and game ideas that have helped many - start rocking!, phonics games & videos online - teach your child to read with phonics - phonics games online, phonics worksheets, phonics video tutorials, english lessons for children - for parents & teachers of kids - we offer video tutorials, games, worksheets, powerpoint,flashcards, placement tests - kizschool.com, kids math exercises : math practice for kids - pre-k to 8th grade., esl ebook packs for kids : resources you can't afford not to have., math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks preschool,1st to 6th grade., grammar games - jeopardy, hangman, wheel games, snakes and ladders and more>>>, fun games - games for teaching esl kids>>>, vocabulary games - memory games, maze games, snakes and ladders, hangman and more>>>, esl online games directory - have fun teaching and learning english with your students, english lessons for children - for parents & teachers of kids - we offer video tutorials, games, worksheets, powerpoint, flashcards, placement tests, printable board games for esl classrooms, printable card games for the esl classrooms, make your own games with templates - custom create activities for you lessons, free powerpoint games for esl teaching, esl powerpoint jeopardy games, esl powerpoint olympic jeopardy games, esl powerpoint taboo games, make your own powerpoint games from our templates, esl powerpoint game templates, esl card game templates, esl board game templates, 1- hot-seat: a lifetime favorite for most language teachers, this game has long been the cornerstone of most esl classroom speaking activities and games. it is quite easy to play yet it gets a lot of language out of students if well thought out. how to play, 2 - what's this? : a vocabulary guessing game with flashcards - how to play, 3- mallet mallet: a fun game for practicing vocabulary and sentences. how to play., 4- chinese whispers: a fun game for listening and getting correct pronunciation of words. how to play., 5- miming games: excellent game for eliciting description of actions and adjectives.how to play, 6- fly swatting: a vocabulary practice game with speaking and pronunciation practice. how to play. read more..., 7- steal, swap, bust and number card game : a fun game for the class. how to play, 8- get rich or die trying : great fun game! combines several game ideas in one game., 9- freeze!or stop! ball game: this game can practice any language point and it is very easy to set up. how to play. read more..., 10- hop and say + rocks, paper & scissors : perfect and exciting game with cards lined up on the floor. learn how to play, 11- talking volleyball: a high-energy game; talking volleyball will practice vocabulary and simple sentences in a communicative way. how to play. read more..., 12 - dice game : a great communicative game to practice almost any language skill, by rolling the dice. read more on how to play>>>, 13 - word association game: communicative vocabulary game by using flash cards read more on how to play >>>, 14- number game: this is a listening game usually used as a warmer using numbers. read more>>>, 15 - guessing game : with this game cards are stuck behind a student's back and he/she asks questions to guess. how to play>>>, 16- swap seats: this seat swapping game gets kids very excited. kids sit in a circle. prepare some word or phrase cards and put the up side down in the middle of the circle. how to play>>>, 17- musical chairs: how to play- bring some nice kids music to class. put chairs in circle and make it short by one chair. students listen to music and when you stop it they sit down. the one person who remains standing answers a few questions. game continues., 1- running dictation: skills:  reading, writing ; requirements: pen and paper and text excerpts. how to play., 2- running dictation for large classes and young learners' classes- this is excellent for beginners to elementary levels. also adapted for large classes, 3- i spy something…  skills- vocabulary, speaking, reading and listening  how to play, 4- memory or concentration game : great game for many language skills practice .skills: ideal for teaching words that have a close relationship. how to play- sample, 5- spelling relay: skills: spelling and reading of words. how to play., 6- word searching games: reading and spelling game. how to play, 7- mallet mallet for spelling. how to play. this is a variation of mallet mallet described above. but this time students take turns spelling a word., 8- chopstick relay : this is a variation of spelling relay but this time using chopsticks and alphabet cards., 9- spelling bee: teacher says a word and student spells. any mistake not allowed., aim: teach letters of the alphabet, aim: teach basic greetings – hello, hi, goodbye., aim: to teach kids how to say their names., aim: teach kids how to say their age and  learn numbers 1 to 5., aim: teach kids how to count from 1 to 10., aim: teach kids how to describe things through colours., aim: teach colours vocabulary, aim: teach colours through a colours songs, aim: teach kids names of fruits and how to express likes., aim: teach kids parts of the body., aim: teach kids how to express ability using simple action verbs., aim: teach students how to express preference by using vocabulary related to farm animals., aim: teach words and expressions used when describing family., aim: to teach words and expressions related to classroom items., aim: teach action verbs, aim: teach various shapes and adjectives to describe size., aim: teach  singular and plurals of nouns and demonstrative pronouns., aim: teach numbers 10 to 100 and pronunciation differences between long and short vowels., aim: teach  words and expressions related to toys and to ask where things are., aim: teach days of the week and some things we do weekly., aim: teach students how to ask about the weather and describe it., aim: teach students about the things we eat and express want, aim: teach  names of pets and give a brief description of pets using personality adjectives., aim: teach students how to tell the time and also how to talk about daily routines., aim: teach students how to tell the time using quarter to/past/ half past etc., aim: teach students months of the year and how to tell dates using months and ordinal numbers., aim: to teach kids how to describe jobs using action verbs., aim: students will learn how to describe actions in progress using the present progressive., aim: teach students different means of transport and talk about going around., aim: to learn to describe what someone is wearing., aim: teach kids prepositions of place, alongside rooms and things at home., aim: teach kids vegetable vocabulary and how to go shopping for veggies., aim: teach students extra vegetable vocabulary., aim: teach kids how to talk about clothes relative to the weather., aim: to teach students how to describe zoo animals by what they eat and look like., esl lesson plan center : esl lesson plan guide for all tefl lesson plan needs on the esl galaxy., board games : teach english grammar, vocabulary and sentence structures using communicative board games, grammar worksheets: teach most common english grammar themes using these printable worksheets, vocabulary worksheets : well-planned theme-based vocabulary worksheets, theme-based lesson plans: plan your lessons around a theme by using the worksheets here., pronunciation lessons: phonetic worksheets, mp3 downloads and vowel sounds audio book, crossword puzzles: a generous offer of free crossword puzzles for grammar and vocabulary practice, word search puzzles: find word search puzzles that do more that fills time effectively- good settlers, festivals and holidays worksheets : lesson plans based on holidays and festivals-halloween, christmas etc., travel english: teach survival english for students going abroad using these lesson plan materials, writing worksheets and templates: practice writing using these cool printables, word formation worksheets: help students improve vocabulary by teaching them prefixes, suffixes and other word formation skills, song worksheets: learn and teach english with english songs, movie worksheets : watch movies and learn english using these english film worksheets, math4children.com: free math worksheets, games, quizzes, videos and ebooks for learning and teaching math., kiz school - this site offers english courses for kids from preschool, kindergarten to 6th grade. you don't have to be a professional teacher to teach kids., esl kids lab this site is an extension of english 4 kids, esl galaxy : printable worksheets, board games, word search, matching exercises, crosswords, music worksheets, video worksheets and more free stuff for all levels., english media lab: this free online classroom has a huge database of videos, esl quizzes, grammar exercises, activities for all levels, beginners, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate, advanced levels., esl downloads: download esl lesson plan materials and interactive exercises for students, esl games world : esl fun games for teachers and students, esl kids for flashcards, worksheets and games]