[on this page you will find interactive math quizzes arranged according to levels. we have quizzes from preschool, kindergarten, first grade to eigth grade levels. these quizzes offer a chance at teacher-assisted self-practice. follow the links below to access quizzes by levels. maths quiz for kids | maths quiz with answers | fun maths quiz | easy maths quiz, pre kindergarten (preschool) math quizzes - counting, addition, subtraction, size etc. mcq, gap fills, match ing and more., kindergarten math quizzes - counting, addition, subtraction, geometry etc. online math quiz for kindergarten for review., first grade math quizzes - counting, addition, subtraction, geometry, positions & more. maths quiz for class 1, second grade math quizzes- counting, addition, subtraction, geometry, positions & more. 2nd grade math quiz, third grade math quizzes - counting, addition, subtraction, geometry, positions & more. grade 3 math quiz, fourth grade math quizzes- numbers, addition, subtraction, geometry, positions & more. maths quiz for class 4, fifth grade math quizzes - integers, addition, subtraction, geometry, positions & more. quiz for class 5 maths, sixth grade math quizzes - order of operations, subtraction, geometry, positions & more. class 6 math quiz, seventh 7th grade math quizzes - algebra, simultaneous equations, linear equations, decimals. quiz for class 7 maths, eigth 8th grade math quizzes - fractions, coordinate geometry, quadratic equations & more, math end of term tests & placement tests from kindergarten to sixth grades & pre-algebra and algebra 2 tests, ,  ,  ,  , math 4 children - for parents & teachers, , math 4 children : math classroom games for teachers & parents, this page features a collection of math quizzes on varied topics which children can solve directly online. click on each grade and be taken to a page that has a list of quizzes on varied math topics. click on each topic and start practicing., a quiz is a test that enables students to test their knowledge in any particular area. quizzes take varied forms; some are multiple choice questions, also often abbreviated as mcq’s, gap fill quizzes also called fill in the blanks, multiple choice and multiple answer options, matching quizzes, hot spot quizzes and more. , the math topics covered in this page have used the same approach and you will find quizzes covering the different topics that are taught at each level. for example, in kindergarten children will cover topics like addition, subtraction, geometry, numbers and spellings, telling time, size, capacity, spatial awareness and more. , the quiz format that is suitable for any topic is the one that is prioritized. let’s take the topic of addition for example, at basic level, it is taught with mcq’s but at higher levels, we start using gap fills and matching approaches. , another great feature with these quizzes is the fact that they can be taken online at any time. students can revise any topic of interest at home or in the classroom and when they do, they will find out their score at the end of each exercise. answer keys are embedded in each quiz so feedback is instant as students take each test. , the activities on this page are free and can be accessed 24/7 anywhere. what is also great is that these quizzes can be accessed both on mobile and on pc. for more offline practice, head over to the worksheets section and print out any test of interest and practice in case you have a printer. otherwise, stick with the eco-friendly solution and practice until you master every skill., at the end of each level, there is a final test exam for that grade and in it students will solve problems on all of the topics that were covered in that level. at the end of each, the final exam score is displayed. this quiz can also serve as a placement test for students looking forward to moving to the next grade. , remember that these tests are free and we will appreciate your feedback in making them better than their current state. also feel  free to share our links on your platforms. remember to also check out the games section which takes quizzing to another fun level. have fun learning online and remember to come back for more., play free preschool and kindergarten math games for kids., math games for 1st grade students to play games and practice different math topics., 2nd grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems., 3rd grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems., 4th grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems., 5th grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems., 6th grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems., 7th grade math games for kids to play and practice math problems., we offer pdf printables in the highest quality., fun games for teaching maths, parents, teachers and educators can now present the knowledge using these vividly presented short videos. simply let the kids watch and learn., quizzes are designed around the topics of addition, subtraction, geometry, shapes, position, fractions, multiplication, division, arithmetic, algebra etc., access the materials by looking at topics - addition, subtraction, multiplication, geometry, trigonometry, algebra, decimals, division and more.][interactive math quizzes for children, preschool quizzes, kindergarten quizzes, 1st grade quizzes, 2nd grade quizzes, 3rd grade quizzes, 4th grade quizzes, 5th grade quizzes, 6th grade quizzes, 7th grade quizzes, interactive math fun games for children from preschool to 8th grade, kindergarten math games, 1st grade math games, 2nd grade math games, 3rd grade math games, 4th grade math games, 5th grade math games, 6th grade math games, 7th grade math games, math practice for kids, printable exercises, interactive math]interactive math quizzes for children[go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, eigth 8th grade math quizzes - fractions, coordinate geometry, quadratic equations & more, math end of term tests & placement tests from kindergarten to sixth grades & pre-algebra and algebra 2 tests, , a quiz is a test that enables students to test their knowledge in any particular area. quizzes take varied forms; some are multiple choice questions, also often abbreviated as mcq’s, gap fill quizzes also called fill in the blanks, multiple choice and multiple answer options, matching quizzes, hot spot quizzes and more. , the math topics covered in this page have used the same approach and you will find quizzes covering the different topics that are taught at each level. for example, in kindergarten children will cover topics like addition, subtraction, geometry, numbers and spellings, telling time, size, capacity, spatial awareness and more. , the quiz format that is suitable for any topic is the one that is prioritized. let’s take the topic of addition for example, at basic level, it is taught with mcq’s but at higher levels, we start using gap fills and matching approaches. , another great feature with these quizzes is the fact that they can be taken online at any time. students can revise any topic of interest at home or in the classroom and when they do, they will find out their score at the end of each exercise. answer keys are embedded in each quiz so feedback is instant as students take each test. , the activities on this page are free and can be accessed 24/7 anywhere. what is also great is that these quizzes can be accessed both on mobile and on pc. for more offline practice, head over to the worksheets section and print out any test of interest and practice in case you have a printer. otherwise, stick with the eco-friendly solution and practice until you master every skill., at the end of each level, there is a final test exam for that grade and in it students will solve problems on all of the topics that were covered in that level. at the end of each, the final exam score is displayed. this quiz can also serve as a placement test for students looking forward to moving to the next grade. , remember that these tests are free and we will appreciate your feedback in making them better than their current state. also feel  free to share our links on your platforms. remember to also check out the games section which takes quizzing to another fun level. have fun learning online and remember to come back for more., play all, play all, play all, play all, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page, go to page][home, games, quizzes, worksheets, grades, topics, videos, apps, downloads, new, preschool/kindergarten, grade 1 worksheets., grade 2 - 6 worksheets, penalty shooting game, en garde duel game, fling the teacher fun game, more more games., math worksheets, math video slides, math games, math quizzes, math downloads, multiplication, comparison, geometry, algebra & more, , subtraction games, multiplication quizzes, geometry exercises, video lessons]