[welcome to the community, buddy. we promise never to spam you., please, try another combination., in this tutorial, you’ll learn how to create a paper cut-out effect in lunacy. we will be mainly using the vector tool and shadows., watch this video or follow the step-by-step guide below., ready? let’s go!, download .sketch file, launch lunacy and create a new document., in the app window, select the objects tab. this will let you see and manage all the objects in the left panel., then add an artboard. i selected the hd option from the list of presets in the right panel. adjust the zoom so that the artboard fits the canvas., now add a rectangle that is half the size of the artboard., switch to the vector editing mode. for this, select the rectangle and click the edit button on the top bar or double-click the rectangle. the cursor will turn into a pen., add some random points to the left side of the rectangle. just click over it., change the type of all points to mirrored. for this:, double-click a point or select a point and click the button in the right panel (see the figure below)., change the color of the shape. i used a linear gradient with the following colors: #d6d0ff > #bcb5eb., select the resulting shape and press ctrl (cmd)+d to duplicate it., move the duplicate below the original shape. for this:, in the left panel, drag the rectangle copy object below the rectangle object or right-click the duplicate and select send to back on the menu., the color of the new shape should be slightly darker than the first shape. i used a linear gradient with the following colors: #bab3e9 > #877ec6., switch to the vector editing mode and slightly change the location of the points on the second shape., similarly, create 2-3 more duplicates. adjust the colors and location of the points. place the shapes one under another so that the color evolves from lighter to darker., i created two more shapes with the following gradients: #9c94d4 > #584f94 (3rd) and #7167b7> #3e3481 (4th)., create one more rectangle that will cover the rest of the artboard. and send it to the very back., adjust the color of the rectangle to match the color scheme of your project. i used the following gradient: #887ae6 > #382f78., now, let’s add some volume to our shapes. add shadows to all the curvy shapes. i used the color of the bottom rectangle: #322978. i picked it up using the eyedropper tool. also, i set the shadow blur to 20., add a bright illustration from our gallery., create the page header using text blocks., add a heading and subheading and adjust them to match the color scheme of the project., as a final stroke, let’s add a button with text and an icon., here is the result:, use this tutorial to create your own paper cut-out designs, and don’t forget to share your art with us on social media!, check out the other lunacy tutorials:, also, try out real-time collaboration in lunacy., follow the lunacy team on social media and stay tuned for new tutorials:, about the author: julia g, a wonderful creature responsible for qa and smm at the lunacy team., icons8, a library of about 130k+ icons and clip art images, offline app and plugins to drag’n’drop icons and clip art to any design tools, moose, the big collection of high-quality stock photos, ouch! , a library of vector illustrations and collages, background remover, ai-based online tool for removing background from any photo, mega creator, online tool for creating visual content from pre-made elements, fugue, royalty free music for videos of any kind, lunacy, free graphic design software with built-in design resources, smart upscaler, image upscaler to enlarge and enhance images using ai, generated photos, unique, worry-free model photos generated by ai, icons8 blog, ][subscribe to icons8 newsletter, how to create a paper cut-out effect in lunacy, how to create a paper cut-out effect in lunacy, try tools for creators by the icons8 team:, related posts, mega creator – make pro-looking graphics in minutes, how to make a watermark in photoshop, 38 awesome free resources for ui designer, how ux of different messengers affected our team collaboration, design assets, apps, request, about icons8, online tools, for developers, support, licenses]how to create a paper cut-out effect in lunacy - blog.icons8.com[objects, artboard, zoom, rectangle, edit, on the top bar, double-click, double-click, select a point, click the button in the right panel, ctrl (cmd)+d, rectangle copy, rectangle, right-click the duplicate, and select send to back, add shadows][design, how-to, icons, music, photo, tools, ux, design, design news, how-to, icons, illustrations, music, new tips, photo, tool tips, tools, uncategorized, ux, news, popular, tags, media kit, become an author, about icons8, neumorphism, landing page, top 10 lunacy tips, twitter, facebook, discord, forums, product hunt, icons, vector illustrations, stock photos, royalty-free music, ai-generated faces, lunacy, pichon icons, figma plugin, google docs add-on, photoshop plugin, illustrator plugin, icon, lunacy feature, in short, business model, advertising, affiliate program, smart upscaler, background remover, anonymizer, face generator, mega creator, api documentation, omg-img, line awesome, forum, faq, contact us, free license, paid license]