[in the early spring of 1919, 26 women boarded a train leaving union station in washington, d.c. and headed south. their goal: to share the story of the horror they endured in prison. they had been arrested for fighting for women’s right to vote., in the early spring of 1919, 26 women boarded a train leaving union station in washington, d.c. and heading south. their goal: to share the story of the horror they endured in prison. they had been arrested for fighting for women’s right to vote. this article series explores how and why the “prison special” aided the cause of women’s suffrage and helped secure the ratification of the 19th amendment the following year. read more, in january 1917, the national woman’s party began an unprecedented campaign of picketing outside the white house. dozens of suffragists were arrested and sentenced to jail. the brutal treatment they received there inspired the "prison special" tour. read more, during the early spring of 1919, 26 of the suffragists who had been imprisoned at occoquan workhouse and in dc jails traveled the country by train to share their stories. they called their train the "democracy limited," and their tour the "prison special." these politically savvy women used their experience as part of their reasoning why women should get the vote. read more, suffragists understood the importance of how they and their cause were viewed in mainstream society. they used fashion to gain mainstream support for their cause. read more, during the suffrage movement of the early twentieth century, women argued for increased political rights for themselves to a government run by men with little incentive to agree. cartoons and caricatures in the press at the time demonstrate the ways in which women were mocked and dismissed for stepping out of their traditional role as wives and mothers. women had to show that what they were fighting for was respectable for women. read more, download the official nps app before your next visit, ][open menu, explore this park, series: democracy limited: the suffrage "prison special" tour of 1919, article 1: democracy limited: introduction, article 2: democracy limited: prison, politics, and the national woman's party, article 3: democracy limited: the prison special, article 4: democracy limited: the politics of dress, article 5: democracy limited: the politics of respectability]article series (u.s. national park service)[tags:][skip to global nps navigation, skip to main content, skip to footer, explore this park, explore this park, return to the civil war, article 1: democracy limited: introduction in the early spring of 1919, 26 women boarded a train leaving union station in washington, d.c. and heading south. their goal: to share the story of the horror they endured in prison. they had been arrested for fighting for women’s right to vote. this article series explores how and why the “prison special” aided the cause of women’s suffrage and helped secure the ratification of the 19th amendment the following year. read more, article 2: democracy limited: prison, politics, and the national woman's party in january 1917, the national woman’s party began an unprecedented campaign of picketing outside the white house. dozens of suffragists were arrested and sentenced to jail. the brutal treatment they received there inspired the "prison special" tour. read more, article 3: democracy limited: the prison special during the early spring of 1919, 26 of the suffragists who had been imprisoned at occoquan workhouse and in dc jails traveled the country by train to share their stories. they called their train the "democracy limited," and their tour the "prison special." these politically savvy women used their experience as part of their reasoning why women should get the vote. read more, article 4: democracy limited: the politics of dress suffragists understood the importance of how they and their cause were viewed in mainstream society. they used fashion to gain mainstream support for their cause. read more, article 5: democracy limited: the politics of respectability during the suffrage movement of the early twentieth century, women argued for increased political rights for themselves to a government run by men with little incentive to agree. cartoons and caricatures in the press at the time demonstrate the ways in which women were mocked and dismissed for stepping out of their traditional role as wives and mothers. women had to show that what they were fighting for was respectable for women. read more, accessibility, privacy policy, foia, notices, disclaimer, faq, no fear act, contact the national park service, usa.gov, facebook facebook facebook, youtube youtube youtube, twitter twitter twitter, instagram instagram instagram, flickr flickr flickr]