[myenglishclub, first, i would like to take the opportunity to welcome you to the pronunciation problem & solution group. by joining the group, you've made a wise decision to improve your pronunciation. the aim of this group is to provide a platform for members of the club to share english pronunciation related information, activities, quizzes, ideas, etc. so, please don't hesitate to make fruitful contributions for our mutual benefits! “share your knowledge. it is a way to achieve immortality.” ~* dalai lama xiv *~, by the way..., have you been yearning to solve your pronunciation problem once and for all but not sure what exactly to do? i conduct online phonetics classes for individuals who are seeking for help. i'll teach you the speech sounds, sound symbols and how to read the phonetic spellings. a phonetic spelling is the pronunciation of a word in the form of text. anyone who could read the phonetic spellings printed next to each word (e.g. pseudonym /ˈsjuːdənɪm/)  in the dictionary could pronuunce all the words listed in the dictionary accurately even without listening to any audio pronunciations at all. , contact me over skype if you're interested, i'm just a click away! click here >> live:gabrielsowrian, , what you see below was taken from the oxford dictionary. do you see the symbols in a pair of slashes after each word. those are the pronunciations of the related words. i have posted a whole new discussion devoted to pronunciation in the dictionary. check it out, guys!  , ,  this group was created on: june 17, 2019 by gabriel sowrian,  , if you want to share your voice recording anywhere at the group to participate in the challenges, you could use this tool. it's called chirbit. all you have to do there is record your voice (or upload a sound file), submit it, press the share button, press this symbol </> for the embed code, copy the code, come here and press the "media" button, paste the code and finally, press the ok button. that's it! , this is how your audio player will look like! now, press the "play" button and listen to my voice reording. ,                                                                       if you can not see this chirbit, listen to it here https://chirb.it/zskik7                                                                                                    check this out on chirbit,                                                                    this is the transcript of the above voice recording of mine.                                                                    one night i dreamed a dream.                                                                     as i was walking along the beach with my lord.                                                                     across the dark sky flashed scenes from my life.                                                                    for each scene, i noticed two sets of footprints in the sand,                                                                     one belonging to me and one to my lord.                                                                      after the last scene of my life flashed before me,                                                                      i looked back at the footprints in the sand.                                                                      i noticed that at many times along the path of my life,                                                                      especially at the very lowest and saddest times,                                                                      there was only one set of footprints.                                                                      this really troubled me, so i asked the lord about it.                                                                      "lord, you said once i decided to follow you,                                                                      you'd walk with me all the way.                                                                      but i noticed that during the saddest and most troublesome times of my life,                                                                      there was only one set of footprints.                                                                      i don't understand why, when i needed you the most, you would leave me."                                                                      he whispered, "my precious child, i love you and will never leave you                                                                      never, ever, during your trials and testings.                                                                      when you saw only one set of footprints,                                                                      it was then that i carried you., press the button "join us!" that you see below to join the group. ,  , you need to be a member of myenglishclub to add comments!, join myenglishclub, hi, everyone!  today is the first day of the year 2022. i've opened a new page for our "pronunciation of the day" activity. let's continue from here!, name of a country || citizen of a country || capital of a country || flag of a country  there are 195 countries in the world today. do you know their names? i'm going to post some information about a country a day starting from today.  world map online games, hi, friends! let me take this opportunity to wish you all a "happy new year" 2021 first. ok, let's contiune with our "pronunciation of the day" on a new page! as usual, i'll be posting the pronunciation (in the form of phonetic spelling) of a word everyday. my objective of doing this activity is to raise awarness among our club members the importance of learning speech sounds and their symbols if they really want to solve their pronunciation problem.  now, this is what i want you to do! look…, hi, guys! how are you doing? i was looking for something cool to record and share with you, so i selected a "thought for the day" from the napoleon hill foundation called "know your own mind, and you will be as wise as the sages". hope you'll enjoy it! if you can not see this chirbit, listen to it here https://chirb.it/y4hsfd check this out on chirbit, please, subscribe to get an access., report an issue  |  terms of service, © 2022 myenglishclub   powered by, please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.][english pronunciation, forum, pronunciation of the day - 2022, names of countries a - z, pronunciation of the day - 2021, thought for the day, photos, hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.]english pronunciation - myenglishclub[welcome, pronunciation problem & solution, platform, english pronunciation, information, activities, quizzes, ideas, by the way., pronunciation problem, online phonetics classes, help, sounds, symbols, phonetic spellings., phonetic spelling, pronunciation, ˈsjuːdənɪm, pronuunce, all the words, skype, click here, symbols, word, pronunciations, words, share, voice recording, record, submit, share, symbol, </>, embed code, copy, press, paste, press, ok, audio player, press, play, listen, voice reording, this is the transcript of the above voice recording of mine., i carried you, join us!, join, hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.][, sign up, sign in, ec, myec user guide faq useful links winning page photo guidelines winning photo why was i banned?, user guide, faq, useful links, winning page, photo guidelines, winning photo, why was i banned?, blogs, discussion, videos, photos, members, groups, mypage, chat, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , home, members, forum, photos, ahsanul houqe april 16, 2022 10:18 @gabriel thanks for the invitation, jasur april 7, 2022 6:33 hi, i want to find a group that makes conversations gabriel sowrian > jasur april 7, 2022 17:26 hi, jasur! this group is for practising your pronunciation and solving the problems related to english pronunciation., gabriel sowrian > jasur april 7, 2022 17:26 hi, jasur! this group is for practising your pronunciation and solving the problems related to english pronunciation., leandra da mota j. rodrigues march 29, 2022 20:32 hi, i need help to my pronunciation, write, listen. i left a messagen in you skype gabriel. gabriel sowrian > leandra da mota j. rodrigues april 3, 2022 18:07 hi, leandra! i'm sorry for the late reply. i just responded to your message on skype. please check it out., gabriel sowrian > leandra da mota j. rodrigues april 3, 2022 18:07 hi, leandra! i'm sorry for the late reply. i just responded to your message on skype. please check it out., le viet march 28, 2022 17:01 i want to speak english fluently gabriel sowrian > le viet march 28, 2022 19:13 hi, le viet! this group is only for you to practise your pronunciation. if you want to speak english fluently, you must do the following things. 1. solve your pronunciation problem. (it will take you only one month.) 2. enrich your vocabulary. (you must learn a few new words every single day forever.) 3. learn a reasonable amount of grammar. 4. read the english newspaper every day. 5. listen to well-spoken english. 6. write in english every day. 7. speak in english every day. you cannot expect result overnight. play your part and your english will improve gradually., gabriel sowrian > le viet march 28, 2022 19:13 hi, le viet! this group is only for you to practise your pronunciation. if you want to speak english fluently, you must do the following things. 1. solve your pronunciation problem. (it will take you only one month.) 2. enrich your vocabulary. (you must learn a few new words every single day forever.) 3. learn a reasonable amount of grammar. 4. read the english newspaper every day. 5. listen to well-spoken english. 6. write in english every day. 7. speak in english every day. you cannot expect result overnight. play your part and your english will improve gradually., veerasithi february 22, 2022 4:25 hai, i want to improve my pronunciation gabriel sowrian > veerasithi february 28, 2022 17:14 hi, veerasithi! welcome to the group. is it possible for you to talk with me over skype? i'll explain to you what exactly you need to do to solve your pronunciation problem completely in just one month. you can use this link to connect with me on skype: https://join.skype.com/invite/lyxcrwqzi1a1 join conversation skype keeps the world talking. call, message, and share whatever you want - for free., gabriel sowrian > veerasithi february 28, 2022 17:14 hi, veerasithi! welcome to the group. is it possible for you to talk with me over skype? i'll explain to you what exactly you need to do to solve your pronunciation problem completely in just one month. you can use this link to connect with me on skype: https://join.skype.com/invite/lyxcrwqzi1a1 join conversation skype keeps the world talking. call, message, and share whatever you want - for free., msisra february 2, 2022 17:10 hi iam want to practice english, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, , , , , , , , ]