[in this ebook you will find 196 pdf printable math worksheets. each worksheet is highly illustrated with the best and most colorful graphics that appeal to young learners. this ebook has the best math practice for children within this range and is suitable for teachers, schools and homeschool parents. there are over 20 math topics covered as follows: tracing & coloring numbers, number lines, counting with aid of pictures, counting tally marks, patterns, shapes/geometry, telling time, addition, subtraction, probability, money, multiplication, fractions, division, size, positions, classification, place value & more. $ 29 us dollars, math ebook for pre k & kindergarten it is an excellent math ebook for starters. it is suitable for teachers and parents of very low math learners. you will find 90 well illustrated printable pdf worksheets, and 90 answer sheets attached. it is recommended for teachers, parents and other educators of kids. the content is well laid out and easy to follow. there are 11 math topics in this level: addition, comparing, counting & numeration, data, graphs, probability, fractions, geometry, writing numbers, money, spatial sense, subtraction, time & more. click on the icon to get a copy from our online shop., $ 20 us dollars, , , math workbook 1 - excellent grade 1 math ebook., you will find 120 printable pdf worksheets, and 120 answer sheets attached. it is recommended for 1st grade teachers, parents and other educators of kids. the content is well laid out and easy to follow. graphics of high quality were used to make math exercises more of fun! there are 16 math topics in this level: addition, comparing, counting & numeration, data & graphs, estimating, fractions, geometry, measurement, mixed operations, money, patterns, place value, probability & statistics, spatial sense, subtraction worksheets, time worksheets & more., , , math workbook 2 - for grade 1, it is an excellent ebook resource of teachers and parents of math for grade 2 learners. you will find 148 printable pdf worksheet exercises, and 148 answer sheets attached. it is recommended for teachers, parents and other educators of kids in 2nd grade. there are 19 math topics in this level: addition, comparing, counting & numeration, data & graphs, division, estimating, fractions, geometry, logic, measurement, multiplication, mixed operations, money, names of numbers, patterns, place value, probability & statistics, subtraction, time worksheets & more, $ 20 us dollars, , math workbook 3 - for 3rd grade, this ebook will serve teachers of grade 3 math very well. you will find 166 printable pdf worksheet exercises, and 166 answer sheets attached. it is recommended for teachers, parents and other educators of kids. the content is well laid out and easy to follow. there are 20 topics in this level: addition, comparing, counting & numeration, decimals, division, data & graphs, estimating,fractions,geometry, measurement, multiplication, mixed operations, names of numbers, logic, money, patterns, place value, probability & statistics, subtraction, time, $ 20 us dollars, , math workbook 4 - for fourth grade, it is suitable for teachers or parents of grade 4 math learners. you will find 149 printable pdf worksheet exercises and 149 answer sheets attached. it is recommended for teachers, parents and other educators of kids at this level. the content is well laid out and easy to follow. there are 20 topics : addition, algebra, comparing, data & graphs, decimals, division, estimating, fractions, geometry, logical thinking, measurement, mixed operations, money, multiplication, number theory, patterns, place value, probability & statistics, subtraction, time & more, $ 20 us dollars, , math workbook 5 & 6 - for 5th & 6th grades, it is designed to help give practice to math learners of grades 5 & 6. if you are a teacher or parent, this is the ultimate teaching or homework material. you will find 230 printable pdf worksheet exercises and 230 answer sheets attached. it is recommended for teachers, parents and other educators of kids. the content is well laid out and easy to follow. there are 19 topics in this level: addition, algebra, decimals, division, fractions, geometry, graphs, lcm & hcf, metric system, money, multiplication, patterns, numbers, order of operations, powers & scientific notation, ratios & percentages, subtraction, tables, time & more, $ 20. us dollars, , math workbook 7 - for 7th grade, it is is a math work ebook for grade 7. you will find 90 printable pdf worksheets, and 90 answer sheets attached. it is recommended for teachers, parents and other educators of kids. the content is well laid out and easy to follow.there are 19 topics in this level: algebra 2, consumer math, decimals, fractions, geometry, inequalities, integers, metric system, number sequences, number theory, percents & ratios, powers, roots & scientific notation, pre-algebra, probability & statistics, pythagorean theorem, ratios & proportions, tables, graphs & data & more, $20 us dollars, ,  , who said you can't have fun with math? this epack contains a variety of fun board games for practising different skills in math. there are 70 pdf printable games with their instructions of play attached. it is suitable for children in pre k, kindergarten, 1st to 5th grades. these games help to reinforce a number of math skills - addition, subtraction, fractions, geometry, telling time, multiplication, division, pre-algebra among others. games have answers for parents and teachers. game categories here include: •zombie board games, pirate games, crocodile games, coordinate games. this product is suitable for teachers, parents and home school educators., , ,  , this epack contains a variety of card games and puzzles to practice different math skills. there are 109 pdf printable activities with their instructions of play attached. there are 25 packs of cards and 84 puzzles. each pack of cards has 53 math problems. microsoft word editable card game templates have also been provided to give tutors the possibility of producing a variety of cards on a wide range of math topics for children at several levels. the kind of puzzles in this pack include: magic squares, across down puzzles, secret trails, circle & table drills and problem matching exercises. these games help to reinforce a number of math skills like - addition, subtraction, fractions, geometry, telling time, multiplication, division, pre-algebra, numbers among others. this product is suitable for children in pre k, kindergarten, 1st, 2nd and 3rd grades., , we offer pdf printables in the highest quality., fun games for teaching maths, parents, teachers and educators can now present the knowledge using these vividly presented short videos. simply let the kids watch and learn., quizzes are designed around the topics of addition, subtraction, geometry, shapes, position, fractions, multiplication, division, arithmetic, algebra etc., access the materials by looking at topics - addition, subtraction, multiplication, geometry, trigonometry, algebra, decimals, division and more., these worksheets are printable pdf exercises of the highest quality. writing reinforces maths learnt. these worksheets are from preschool, kindergarten to grade 6 levels of maths. the following topics are covered among others:, math video lessons, ever wondered how to teach maths to kids as a teacher or parent? simply let them watch our vividly presented videos. these videos cover a number of math topics and simply teach the lesson. the good thing is that they are videos which means they can be watched over and over again. we even have ipod compatible videos along these topics : lessons to teach addition, subtraction, geometry, comparison, algebra, shapes, time, fractions, decimals, sequence, division, metric system, logarithms, ratios, probability, multiplication and more>>>, math quizzes and online tests, math quizzes online - addition, subtraction, geometry, comparison, algebra, shapes, time, fractions, decimals, sequence, division, metric system, logarithms, ratios, probability, multiplication, these quizzes range from multiple choice math quizzes, gap fill quizzes, matching exercises, hotspot quizzes with graphics and more for interactive math practice., , ][math & educational products for kids, premium workbook for beginners - pre-k to 1st grade., math workbooks by grade from preschool to seventh grade, $ 20 us dollars, , 70 math board games,  , $ 20 us dollars |, , 25 packs of cards & 84 puzzles, $ 20 usd, child education products, about math4children.com, directory, levels & grades, commercial, site, website focus, math practice for kids, printable exercises, interactive math]math, math work book, ebook and educational products[, 20 math topics, math ebook for pre k & kindergarten, , , , , , , , preschool, kindergarten to grade 6, worksheets to practice addition, subtraction, geometry, comparison, algebra, shapes, time, fractions, decimals, sequence, division, metric system, logarithms, ratios, probability, multiplication and more>>>, lessons to teach addition, subtraction, geometry, comparison, algebra, shapes, time, fractions, decimals, sequence, division, metric system, logarithms, ratios, probability, multiplication and more>>>, addition, subtraction, geometry, comparison, algebra, shapes, time, fractions, decimals, sequence, division, metric system, logarithms, ratios, probability, multiplication, multiple choice math quizzes, gap fill quizzes, matching exercises, hotspot quizzes with graphics, we cover the following: math, maths, for kids, children, math activities for children,math for kids,kindergarten math,elementary math, first grade math, math games, worksheets, printables, exercises, preschool children, free online exercises, free, downloads, printable pdf, addition, subtraction, geometry, shapes, position, fractions, multiplication, division, arithmetic, algebra][home, games, quizzes, worksheets, grades, topics, videos, apps, downloads, new, preschool/kindergarten, grade 1 worksheets., grade 2 - 6 worksheets, penalty shooting game, en garde duel game, fling the teacher fun game, more more games., worksheets to practice addition, subtraction, geometry, comparison, algebra, shapes, time, fractions, decimals, sequence, division, metric system, logarithms, ratios, probability, multiplication and more>>>, math worksheets, math games, math lessons, math quizzes, math downloads, parents/teachers, preschool, kindergarten, grades 1, grade 2 - 6, math store, math ebooks, math ipod videos, advertise on this site, about, copyright, sitemap, internal links, external links, math worksheets, math video slides, math games, math quizzes, math downloads, multiplication, comparison, geometry, algebra & more, , subtraction games, multiplication quizzes, geometry exercises, video lessons]