[myenglishclub, this group is for those who wish to learn interactions in english on real life situations., you need to be a member of myenglishclub to add comments!, join myenglishclub, i am sorry aruna, i am not on skype. its due to my time limitations i do not operate through skype. , hi i am aruna i like to learn english from you, my skype id : aruna_lk1, thank you for inviting me to this interesting group! good and helpful idea! wish you all the best !, i want us to look at what a verb is. a verb is a word that expresses action. e.g (1) adah is running. in the sentence above running is the action perform by adah.(2) peter kick the ball. in the above sentence, kick is the action perform by peter. and thank you all for learning along with me., here we try to know how to speak about all directions?a: where is abc company.b: it is in delhi, in india.a: where is your house?b: it is in between the alex hospital and alfred school.a: where is the farm house?b: it is across the godavari river. (this means we have to cross river for it)a: where is the alex hospital?b: it is behind or at the back side of big cinema.a: where is the medical shop.b: it is in front of or opposite to big cinema.a: where is the railway station?b: it is to the left…, `a` is searching for a location. he has address with him, but he is new to the place.a: excuse me, will you be able to tell me where is this place?b: i am sorry, i am not aware of this place. will you please ask at that shop?a: sure, thank you. (a to shop keeper-sk)a: excuse me, please help me locating this address.sk: ok, you go straight and then take a left turn. you will come across a school called new india primary school. this place is exactly opposite to this school.a: how much time it…, here, a traveler is waiting for train. he is in the waiting room and talking to another traveler.traveler a: hello, are you going to mumbai?b: no, i am going to nasik. you look to be going to mumbai.a: ya. train looks to be late?b: yes, it seems it is about half an hour late.a: any reason?b: there is no need for our railways to have any reason to be late.a: yes, that is very true. even we do not feel bad about it. we are used to it.b: however, considering the vast network of our railways, it…, please, subscribe to get an access., report an issue  |  terms of service, © 2022 myenglishclub   powered by, please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.][short english lessons, forum, the verb, directions - 2, lesson 8 - directions- 1, lesson 7 - at the railway station 3, photos, hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.]short english lessons - myenglishclub[hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.][, sign up, sign in, ec, myec user guide faq useful links winning page photo guidelines winning photo why was i banned?, user guide, faq, useful links, winning page, photo guidelines, winning photo, why was i banned?, blogs, discussion, videos, photos, members, groups, mypage, chat, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , home, members, forum, photos, ahmed october 18, 2014 21:24 hi guys ,i am new here , i want to improve my english if u are interested add me my skype id is saj_asif, ahmed october 18, 2014 21:24 hi guys ,i am new here , i want to improve my english if u are interested add me my skype id is saj_asif, sunil jogdeo october 10, 2014 10:48 i am sorry aruna, i am not on skype. its due to my time limitations i do not operate through skype. , aruna_lk1 october 10, 2014 8:17 hi i am aruna i like to learn english from you my skype id : aruna_lk1, hala j.m august 27, 2014 19:38 thank you for inviting me to this interesting group! good and helpful idea! wish you all the best !]