[, all your english grammar exercises in one place in the form of esl quizzes, tests-grammar exam resources. interactive grammar practice - quizzes & games in flash., all kinds of online interactive exercises can be found here. games, videos, quizzes for grammar, pronunciation, vocabulary & listening practice, esl interactive games. fun grammar & vocabulary exercises featuring : hangman, snakes & ladders, wheel of fortune, crossword,word search, esl, english grammar practice - parts of speech, vocabulary exercises arranged by topic. quizzes & games for online practice., learn to speak english correctly through phonetic exercises. we have phonetic & phonics quizzes, games and listening exercises. listen and say., business english, survival english, idiomatic expressions, communicative chunks, advanced & intermediate level quizzes to help adults practice., esl fun games and activities for the classroom. esl powerpoint games, esl board games, card games, interactive games, game templates for your to build your own exercises., , , downloadable esl products: with a combined 6 ebooks for kids, you are armed with the best teaching materials for young learners in the industry. these ebook packs are loaded with materials of the highest quality, designed to save you great amounts of lesson planning time and teaching energy. instant download!, this site was set up in 2006 by futonge kisito with students and teachers in mind. the goal was to create a place where students can practice english online using interactive exercises.it was also for teachers to use as a study lab where they can bring their students for extra practice., math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esltower.com is a free esl, efl & elt site that offers top quality printable and interactive english grammar and vocabulary exercises for teachers and students. these grammar and vocabulary resources will save english teachers lesson planning time and offer students a great free opportunity at online self-study.][interactive english grammar exercises online, adjectives & adverbs exercises, teach kids to read with phonics - materials for teaching phonics, articles "a" "an" and "the", comparatives & superlatives, condtionals exercises, confusing words & collocations, conjunctions exercises, future tense exercises, gerunds and infinitives, gap filling exercises, idioms exercises, modals & modal verbs, passive vs. active voice games, past simple / past progressive tenses, perfect tenses exercises, phrasal verbs exercises, prefixes and suffixes vocabulary exercises, prepositions exercises, present simple & present continuous, pronouns exercises, proverbs, pronunciation exercises, grammar games online - click here, esl vocabulary games online - click here, games for classrooms - click here, vocabulary activities - click here, pronunciation exercises - click here, esl tv - videos by levels - click here, interactive quizzes by levels - click here, listening exercises - click here, adult learners' exercises - click here, quantifiers, questions exercises, singular vs. plural, tag questions exercises, grammar games & interactive exercises, present tenses games, past simple, past progressive present perfect tense games, conjunctions games, passive vs. active voice games, articles (the/a/an) - definite/indefinite games, modals / modal verbs games, prepositions & conjunctions games, conditionals games, gerunds (-ing) and infinitives (to) games, adjectives and adverbs games, assorted grammar games, grammar exercises - click here, detailed description of english media lab, english media lab, free english video lessons, esl grammar & vocabulary quizzes, according to levels, esl online puzzles , gap fills and cloze exercises, business and survival english, pronunciation exercises and listening, commercial area, englishmedialab.com partner sites, tools for esl learners, products of englishmedialab.com, key site links, useful links, commercial, site profile& link, about this site, teach math - esl-galaxy.com math site, similar site to englishmedialab.com, esl young learners, interactive exercises, products of esl-galaxy.com]interactive english grammar exercises online,quizzes, games, parts of speech[verb tenses - past simple, future, present perfect, verb forms - name 5 forms of the verb to sing - sing, sings, sang, singing and sung - 10 points, word building quiz games - adjectives opposites, synonyms, prefixes, suffixes, extreme adjectives, esl-galaxy.com, esl kids lab, esl fun games and activities for the classroom, . esl powerpoint games, esl board games, card games, interactive games, game templates for your to build your own exercises., free chinese lessons - chinese-ilab.com, chinese lessons online, new esl kids lab, esl tower, , , with a combined 6 ebooks for kids, you are armed with the best teaching materials for young learners in the industry. these ebook packs are loaded with materials of the highest quality, designed to save you great amounts of lesson planning time and teaching energy. instant download!, futonge kisito, english online, interactive exercises, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esltower.com][home, exercises, games/puzzles, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, advanced, plus kizphonics esl games plus, kizphonics, esl games plus, adjectives followed by prepositions. adjectives quiz, adjectives and opposites. a matching about adjectives and their opposites., adjectives and opposites - duel game, adjectives hangman game, adverbs of frequency hangman game, adverbs to describe verbs- ending with - ly- -hangman game, adjectives opposite - hangman game, adjectives comparison comparatives and superlatives general knowledge quiz., compound adjectives matching quiz, for example, self-confident., personality adjectives matching quiz. match words to definitions., english grammar practice: people who are... a quiz about group adjectives., definite or indefinite article. quiz about the use of articles the, a, an., definite article (the) or indefinite article (a) - basketball game, articles - "a, an, the" - snakes and ladders game, comparatives video lesson using geographical knowledge, superlatives video lesson using knowledge of world geography, comparatives and superlatives general knowledge quiz, first conditional fill in the blanks quiz., zero conditional grammar quiz. test your knowledge of the zero conditional., conditionals and other grammar skills- third and second conditionals, conditionals practice - first, second, and third conditionals- fling the teacher game, do or make? : similar meaning but difference in usage - test your knowledge do or make usage., esl quiz: confusing words lend or borrow : quiz to help you differentiate between the use of lend and borrow., what's she like? confusing of "like" to ask for description and "like" as verb., conjunctions : using so, until and because in english- fill in the blanks quiz, since, for, last quiz- using since, for and last. fill in the blanks., for or since : using for or since in english can also be confusing, take this quiz and find out what is right., while or during ? quiz about the use of "while" and "during", conjunctions, if, when, although, in case, unless - duel game, talk about travel plans using "going to" for future., simple past vs. future tense usage, future forms- future perfect, future continuous, future simple quiz, english grammar quiz: gerund or infinitive? a quiz about the use of gerunds and infinitives in english., fill in the blanks with the right question word, fill in the blanks with the right verb, english idioms matching exercise. a quiz about matching english idioms to their meanings., business english money idioms quiz - test your knowledge of money idioms., modals - can, must, would, have to - basketball game, mixed modals- snakes and ladders game, can, can't , could, couldn't, can't have and must have, can't and must modals of probability & possibility, must and have to, must, mustn't and needn't, active vs. passive voice - basketball game, correct passive voice - football game, past simple vs. future tense use . learn to use the past simple by comparing with future tenses, past simple or present perfect? when do we use the past simple and present perfect?, past simple or present perfect ? 2 know the difference between the two tenses., past simple or past continuous? what is the difference in use? learn from this quiz., present vs. past tenses - football game, present vs. past tenses - walk the plank game, past simple snakes and ladders - regular/irregular verbs - snakes and ladders, past progressive vs. past simple tenses - snakes and ladders game, past simple - spelling game, irregular past tense - spelling game, present tenses vs. past tenses - classification game, past simple betting - betting jeopardy tv style game, past progressive vs. past simple tense - betting jeopardy tv game, past simple tense - sequencing reading game/exercise, present perfect or past simple? when do we use the past simple and present perfect?, present perfect or simple past tense? 2 know the difference between the two tenses., present perfect vs. past simple tense - spin the wheel game, present perfect & past participle - hangman game, english tenses exercise - matching game, phrasal verbs and nouns matching exercise., phrasal verbs and similar verbs match. match phrasal verbs to other verbs that have similar meaning., prefix and suffix multiple choice exercise., prefix and suffix matching quiz. match prefixes to their meanings, prefix word base matching- match prefixed words to base meaning1, prefix word base matching- match prefixed words to base meaning2, prepositions of place grammar video, prepositions multiple choice quiz. choose the correct prepositions., prepositions in use. choose the correct prepositions to fill in the blanks., adjectives and nouns followed by prepositions - fling the teacher game, verbs followed by prepositions - basketball game, prepositions game - football game, prepositions of place - in, under, on at - audio memory game, prepositions of time- since, during, in - walk the plank game, gap fill exercises: present simple tense or present continuous., gap fill exercises: present simple tense exercises, present progressive action verbs - fling the teacher game, present tenses hangman game, present progressive tense - hangman game, present progressive tense - spelling game, present simple vs. present progressive - snakes & ladders game, present simple vs. present progressive - hangman game, action verbs picrture - catching game :, action verbs sentences & picture - catching game, daily routines sequencing exercise - sequencing game exercise, daily routines memory game - matching game, relative pronouns matching quiz. who, which, where, whose., subject and object pronouns : fill in the blanks with the correct pronoun., proverbs quiz. match the first part of the proverbs to the end. proverbs quiz., intonation exercise with audio recording. choose the correct mood according to the intonation., odd word out: choose the word that sounds different., word stress exercises. where is the word stress?, word stress exercises. where is the stress? 2, present tenses games, past simple, past progressive present perfect tense games, conjunctions games, passive vs. active voice games, more more more grammar games- click here, memory games - vocabulary and listening memory games, labeling games - drag and drop labeling games, featuring - hangman, snakes and ladders, wheel of fortune, football game, basketball games, jeopardy, wheel of fortune games for classroom or self-study, quiz show - for classroom or self-study, billionaire - games for classrooms or self-study, show down quiz - classroom game, all games here - click here, videos exercises to help learn new vocabulary ,, interactive vocabulary quizzes, interactive vocabulary games with audio listening, pronunciation quizzes online, phonetic ipa practice and learning, beginner videos, elementary videos, high level videos, beginner level quizzes, elementary level quizzes, pre-intermediate level quizzes, intermediate quizzes, upper intermediate & advanced level interactive quizzes, listening exercises online - variety of listening exercises, business english exercises online, survival english - go abroad english exercises for false beginners, communicative phrases - learn commonly used expressions in everyday english, idiomatic expressions from a - z, intermediate level esl grammar and vocabulary quizzes, advanced level esl grammar and vocabulary quizzes, food quantifiers video learning exercise: a loaf of bread, a cup of ..., fill in the blanks with th e correct question words, where, when, who, why, which, question and answer beginner exercise., how much and how many- differences between how much and how many., general knowledge comparisons questions ., what's she like? questions that ask for descriptions., "a" and "an" grammar video for beginners - the article for singular and "s" for plurals., choose the correct tag questions form to complete the sentences 1, choose the correct tag questions form to complete sentences, present progressive action verbs - fling the teacher game, present tenses hangman game, present progressive tense - hangman game, present progressive tense - spelling game, present simple vs. present progressive - snakes & ladders game, present simple vs. present progressive - hangman game, action verbs picture - catching game :, action verbs sentences & picture - catching game, daily routines sequencing exercise - sequencing game exercise, daily routines memory game - matching game, present vs. past tenses - football game, present vs. past tenses - walk the plank game, past simple snakes and ladders - regular/irregular verbs - snakes and ladders, past progressive vs. past simple tenses - snakes and ladders game, past simple - spelling game, present perfect progressive - matching game, irregular past tense - spelling game, present tenses vs. past tenses - classification game, past simple betting - betting jeopardy tv style game, past progressive vs. past simple tense - betting jeopardy tv game, past simple tense - sequencing reading game/exercise, present perfect vs. past simple tense - spin the wheel game, present perfect & past participle - hangman game, english tenses exercise - matching game, formulaic expressions - snakes and ladders games, intermediate level review snakes and ladders game, irregular past simple verb tense quiz show -jeopardy quiz, verb tenses - past simple, future, present perfect - jeopardy classroom game, verb forms - name 5 forms of the verb to sing - sing, sings, sang, singing and sung - 10 points, mixed conjunctions wheel of fortune game, active vs. passive voice - basketball game, correct passive voice - football game, definite article (the) or indefinite article (a) - basketball game, articles - "a, an, the" - snakes and ladders game, modal auxiliary- can, must, would, have to - basketball game, mixed modals- snakes and ladders game, adjectives and nouns followed by prepositions - fling the teacher game, verbs followed by prepositions - basketball game, prepositions game - football game, prepositions of place - in, under, on at - audio memory game, prepositions of time- since, during, in - walk the plank game, conjunctions, if, when, although, in case, unless - duel game, prepositions game - for elementary to pre-intermediate levels - spin off game, prepositions of place - in, on, under, behind, in front of, next to, conditionals practice - first, second, and third conditionals- fling the teacher game, conditionals billionaire game - first, second, third and zero conditionals practice games, gerunds and infinitives - ing or to - duel game, adjectives and opposites - duel game, adjectives hangman game, adverbs of frequency hangman game, adverbs to describe verbs- ending with - ly- -hangman game, adjectives opposite - hangman game, word building quiz games - adjectives opposites, synonyms, prefixes, suffixes, extreme adjectives assorted grammar games word groups - walk the plank game about you - sentence game festivals, dates and ordinal numbers - sentence game greetings sentence game hello. hi - greetings audio matching game how many - sentence game singular plurals of nouns - billionaire game grammar exercises - click here interactive grammar quizzes interactive grammar games, word groups - walk the plank game, about you - sentence game, festivals, dates and ordinal numbers - sentence game, greetings sentence game, hello. hi - greetings audio matching game, how many - sentence game, singular plurals of nouns - billionaire game, interactive grammar quizzes, interactive grammar games, 2009-09-06 - esl games and exercises online - vocabulary games, hangman, snakes and ladders, wheel game, maze games, memory games and more, , 2009-07-01 - learn chinese online. free chinese lessons for beginners and elementary levels, 2009-03 -7 - esl kids lessons, worksheets, flashcards and phonics materials, 2007-12-7 - festivals & holiday vocabulary videos- christmas, halloween, thanksgiving, 2007-6-19: pronunciation and intonations updates- phonetic vowels video, vowels sounds mp3 download, free vowel sounds audio book for both students and teachers ( teachers please phonetic worksheets here!!, 2007-6-10 fun english exercises with interactive online crosswords, word search & cloze exercises., 2007-1-7- building vocabulary through prefixes & suffixes. see our intermediate, advanced & grammar areas for interactive affixes quizzes. for teachers see english word formation worksheets on the esl galaxy. 2006-12-20- advanced/upper intermediate quizzes updates. interactive vocabulary and grammar quizzes for advanced students have been updated., beginner video lessons: learn & teach country names, animal vocabulary, colours, clothes, days more..., elementary video lessons learn vocabulary, related to jobs, clothes,months, vegetables, fruits more..., higher level video lessons. use these videos to learn & teach vocabulary and grammar, adjectives comparatives, superlatives, travel, more.., beginner esl quizzes: you will find grammar and vocabulary self-grading exercises for beginners and young learners, elementary esl quizzes: elementary vocabulary & grammar quizzes, vegetables, clothes & weather and more., pre-intermediate esl quizzes: find quizzes that cover most grammar and vocabulary points of this level. do exercises with tag questions, future tenses, simple past tenses,, intermediate esl quizzes : grammar & vocabulary quizzes, gerunds & infinitives, perfect tenses, past continuous, computer vocabulary quizzes and many more.., upper intermediate & advanced esl quizzes: quizzes for high level students, vocabulary related to things like politics, alternative therapy, banking and much more..., crossword puzzles: solve english crossword puzzles online while practicing grammar and vocabulary, word search puzzles: online word search puzzles for esl students to practice grammar and vocabulary in a fun way., cloze & gap fill exercises: drag and drop cloze exercise, spelling and gap fills on line., business english quizzes: self-grading vocabulary tests on a number of topics, banking, negotiations, money idioms, money talk, business across cultures and many more..., survival english: this section deals with english for travelers going to foreign english speaking countries, you will learn words related to going through customs, checking into hotels, travel luggage, passport etc., pronunciation and intonation: english pronunciation and intonation exercises, phonetics, diphthongs,word stress quizzes, and more..., listening exercises: listening exercises, though not many, for listening practice. done with a variety of standard english accents. practice listening here.., grammar quizzes : download self-grading quizzes for offline study, powerpoint lessons : teachers of english would love these 50 powerpoint lessons, audiobooks(mp3 pdf) : mp3 attached to this audio readers- download now!, video lessons & podcasts: download videos on this site for ipod use or for pc use, worksheet ebooks : download esl lesson plan ebook with printable worksheets, board games, crossword puzzles, grammar, vocabulary and theme based lesson plans for tefl., mp3 downloads : download tongue twisters to practice pronunciation, classified ads: advertise a product, service or resume on this site. advertise a banner or program., esl-galaxy.com: free downloadable esl/efl/tesol/tefl teaching materials .printable worksheets, board games, crosswords, puzzle worksheets, theme worksheets,survival english worksheets,esl powerpoint downloads. tefl/tesl teachers' first stop- absolutely free!!!, esl kids lab: efl/esl kids resources for teachers, parents and kids. esl kids videos, worksheets, powerpoint downloads,interactive quizzes for kids, tefl/tesol/esol/esl/efl resources for kids. super cool site for kids. 100% free!!!, esl fun games and activities for the classroom. esl powerpoint games, esl board games, card games, interactive games, game templates for your to build your own exercises., free chinese lessons - chinese-ilab.com: learn chinese yourself on chinese-ilab.com with videos, mp3 downloads and games., chinese lessons online: for those interested in learning survival chinese, this website will take you a long way with free podcasts, mp3 downloads and more., new esl kids lab: fantastic free resources for esl kids, k-12 - ppt videos, flashcards, handouts and phonics, esl tower : there are grammar & vocabulary quizzes, crosswords, word search and several fun puzzles that make the learning and teaching of english easy and fun. pronunciation is one area we have recently added more content. we have added phonetic vowel and consonant exercises in the form of videos, worksheets, self-tests and mp3 downloads., online english dictionaries - cambridge, webster's, sites for teachers of english as a second/foreign language, english exercises, grammar exercises, english tv - videos, vocabulary exercises, games & puzzles, pronunciation, education links, teacher links, students & teachers, kids website, esl materials store, e-books downloads, grammar/vocab e-books, advertise on this site, about, copyright, sitemap, esl-galaxy.com, esltower.com, contact us, kids worksheets, games for kids lessons, phonics resources, flashcards, video lessons, grammar quizzes, vocabulary quizzes, video slides, pronunciation exercises, online practice exercises, esl kids ebooks, powerpoint packs, math ebooks, grammar/vocab ebooks, esl courseware downloads]