[hello and welcome to my blog where i hope you will enjoy my snippets from women's history., i knew about the colours and how wearing the colours - even by those under their husbands' thumbs - was popular but i knew little of the rest - fascinating, thank you. i know it''s a serious subject but i had to smile at the idea of 'tricolour underwear in purple, white and green' and the reaction of a staunchly opposed man on seeing his wife wearing it., i had a chuckle at the underwear too scriptor. thanks for dropping by., hello deb - purple white and green are favourite colours of mine - perhaps my ancestors were keen supporters of the movement - in fact i am sure they would have been - interesting information - have a good weekend, yes they're nice colours. you have a good one too! ;-), that is so interesting - i didn't know any of that about the support shown for the movement by those stores. what a fascinating time it was x, i didn't realize they had so much merchandise. i'd love to see what the bicycle looked like painted in their tricolours. :-), this was really useful! thank you! do you know if there were different types of movements? peaceful and violent? if you could tell me, i would really appreciate it : ), have loved reading this information i am very passionate about women equality and have a lot of interest in the suffragettes and their cause., glad you enjoyed it.thanks for dropping by. :), on a tour of the glasgow school of art some years ago, we were told that the colours green, white & violet represented the initials of give women votes., yes, my son told me that too., i think what's incredible is that purple and green aren't colours that typically go together, and so there could be no mistaking that if a woman was wearing those three colours, that she was a suffragette, it couldn't be an accident., wow, incredible blog structure! how lengthy have you been running a blog for? you made running a blog look easy. the entire glance of your site is excellent, let alone the content!, my partner and i stumbled over here by a different web page and thought i might check things out. i like what i see so i am just following you. look forward to going over your web page repeatedly., thank you and thanks for commenting. :), it's appropriate time to make a few plans for the longer term and it's time to be happy. i have read this put up and if i may i desire to suggest you some fascinating things or tips. maybe you could write next articles regarding this article. i desire to learn more things approximately it!, i have been working on a range of jewellery based on the rosettes and fascinated to get the background, thank you, i do love your jewellery (just popped over to your website to have a look). thanks for dropping by and commenting. :), thanks for shariing your thoughts about decorative flags. regards!, incгedible! thіs blօg loοks exactly like my old one! it's on a totally differdnt subject but it has pгetty much tthe same layout and design. outstanding choice of colors!, i have been browsing online more than 4 hours today, yet i never found any interesting article like yours. it is pretty worth enough for me. in my view, if all web owners and bloggers made good content as you did, the internet will be a lot more useful than ever before., ler sobre este assunto na verdade foi muito bom pra mim. poder adquirir este conhecimento me ajudará em muito. e sou grato por você ter deixado esta informação. muito obrigado., some truly grand work on behalf of the owner of this web site, absolutely great articles., hi colleagues, its wonderful paragraph regarding tutoringand entirely explained, keep it up all the time., thank you for sharing this clothing related blog.pashion clothing is leading clothing supplier for industrial uniform in india visit here for more information. click here.!!, keep on working, great job!, i seriously love your website.. excellent colors & theme. did you make this web site yourself? please reply back as i'm looking to create my very own blog and want to learn where you got this from or what the theme is called. thank you!, wow just what i was looking for. came here by searching for klein ltd, this paragraph is truly a nice one it assists new internet people, who are wishing in favor of blogging., keep this going please, great job!, as a newbie, i am constantly browsing online for articles that can benefit me. thank you, the post is written in very a good manner and it contains many useful information for me. tks thermal oxidizer, , , note: only a member of this blog may post a comment., , , , , , , , ][women's history bites, tuesday, 25 november 2014, the colours of the suffragettes, translate, my other blogs, books, blog archive, popular posts, contact form]women's history bites: the colours of the suffragettes[][scriptor senex26 november 2014 at 22:20 i knew about the colours and how wearing the colours - even by those under their husbands' thumbs - was popular but i knew little of the rest - fascinating, thank you. i know it''s a serious subject but i had to smile at the idea of 'tricolour underwear in purple, white and green' and the reaction of a staunchly opposed man on seeing his wife wearing it.replydelete replies reply, deb26 november 2014 at 23:42 i had a chuckle at the underwear too scriptor. thanks for dropping by.replydelete replies reply, jane of levant27 november 2014 at 02:22 hello deb - purple white and green are favourite colours of mine - perhaps my ancestors were keen supporters of the movement - in fact i am sure they would have been - interesting information - have a good weekend replydelete replies reply, deb27 november 2014 at 03:14 yes they're nice colours. you have a good one too! ;-)replydelete replies reply, teresa ashby27 november 2014 at 11:05 that is so interesting - i didn't know any of that about the support shown for the movement by those stores. what a fascinating time it was xreplydelete replies reply, deb27 november 2014 at 22:46 i didn't realize they had so much merchandise. i'd love to see what the bicycle looked like painted in their tricolours. :-)replydelete replies reply, unknown28 november 2016 at 22:15 this was really useful! thank you! do you know if there were different types of movements? peaceful and violent? if you could tell me, i would really appreciate it : )replydelete replies reply, unknown5 july 2017 at 14:06 have loved reading this information i am very passionate about women equality and have a lot of interest in the suffragettes and their cause.replydelete replies reply, deb14 july 2017 at 12:33 glad you enjoyed it.thanks for dropping by. :)replydelete replies reply, the makers yard9 may 2018 at 08:58 on a tour of the glasgow school of art some years ago, we were told that the colours green, white & violet represented the initials of give women votes.replydelete replies alison bailey smith4 september 2018 at 01:19 yes, my son told me that too.delete replies reply reply, alison bailey smith4 september 2018 at 01:19 yes, my son told me that too.delete replies reply, anonymous26 july 2018 at 03:46 i think what's incredible is that purple and green aren't colours that typically go together, and so there could be no mistaking that if a woman was wearing those three colours, that she was a suffragette, it couldn't be an accident. replydelete replies reply, anonymous30 july 2018 at 01:11 wow, incredible blog structure! how lengthy have you been running a blog for? you made running a blog look easy. the entire glance of your site is excellent, let alone the content!replydelete replies reply, anonymous25 august 2018 at 19:01 my partner and i stumbled over here by a different web page and thought i might check things out. i like what i see so i am just following you. look forward to going over your web page repeatedly.replydelete replies deb5 september 2018 at 00:54 thank you and thanks for commenting. :)delete replies reply reply, deb5 september 2018 at 00:54 thank you and thanks for commenting. :)delete replies reply, anonymous29 august 2018 at 13:04 it's appropriate time to make a few plans for the longer term and it's time to be happy. i have read this put up and if i may i desire to suggest you some fascinating things or tips. maybe you could write next articles regarding this article. i desire to learn more things approximately it!replydelete replies reply, alison bailey smith4 september 2018 at 01:18 i have been working on a range of jewellery based on the rosettes and fascinated to get the background, thank youreplydelete replies deb5 september 2018 at 00:53 i do love your jewellery (just popped over to your website to have a look). thanks for dropping by and commenting. :)delete replies reply reply, deb5 september 2018 at 00:53 i do love your jewellery (just popped over to your website to have a look). thanks for dropping by and commenting. :)delete replies reply, anonymous11 september 2018 at 16:16 thanks for shariing your thoughts about decorative flags. regards!replydelete replies reply, anonymous20 september 2018 at 02:28 incгedible! thіs blօg loοks exactly like my old one! it's on a totally differdnt subject but it has pгetty much tthe same layout and design. outstanding choice of colors!replydelete replies reply, anonymous24 september 2018 at 21:57 i have been browsing online more than 4 hours today, yet i never found any interesting article like yours. it is pretty worth enough for me. in my view, if all web owners and bloggers made good content as you did, the internet will be a lot more useful than ever before.replydelete replies reply, anonymous27 october 2018 at 01:49 ler sobre este assunto na verdade foi muito bom pra mim. poder adquirir este conhecimento me ajudará em muito. e sou grato por você ter deixado esta informação. muito obrigado.replydelete replies reply, anonymous24 november 2018 at 08:16 some truly grand work on behalf of the owner of this web site, absolutely great articles.replydelete replies reply, anonymous10 december 2018 at 03:05 hi colleagues, its wonderful paragraph regarding tutoringand entirely explained, keep it up all the time.replydelete replies reply, pashionclothing11 december 2018 at 00:52 thank you for sharing this clothing related blog.pashion clothing is leading clothing supplier for industrial uniform in india visit here for more information. click here.!! replydelete replies reply, anonymous15 december 2018 at 15:22 keep on working, great job!replydelete replies reply, anonymous31 december 2018 at 12:18 i seriously love your website.. excellent colors & theme. did you make this web site yourself? please reply back as i'm looking to create my very own blog and want to learn where you got this from or what the theme is called. thank you!replydelete replies reply, anonymous4 january 2019 at 08:30 wow just what i was looking for. came here by searching for klein ltdreplydelete replies reply, anonymous4 january 2019 at 19:22 this paragraph is truly a nice one it assists new internet people, who are wishing in favor of blogging.replydelete replies reply, anonymous29 march 2019 at 20:03 keep this going please, great job!replydelete replies reply, anonymous30 march 2019 at 12:03 as a newbie, i am constantly browsing online for articles that can benefit me. thank youreplydelete replies reply, naveed mughal19 may 2019 at 03:55 the post is written in very a good manner and it contains many useful information for me. tks thermal oxidizer replydelete replies reply, jaunts around ireland, ►  2018 (1) ►  january (1), ►  january (1), ►  2017 (3) ►  november (1) ►  october (2), ►  november (1), ►  october (2), ►  2015 (2) ►  march (1) ►  january (1), ►  march (1), ►  january (1), ▼  2014 (3) ►  december (2) ▼  november (1) the colours of the suffragettes, ►  december (2), ▼  november (1) the colours of the suffragettes, the colours of the suffragettes, the colours of the suffragettes in 1908, the women's social and political union or wspu, adopted the colour scheme of purple, white and green, that would not only disti..., eliza shirley - salvation army pioneer eliza shirley was just seventeen years old when she left her home in england in 1879 and travelled with her mother, annie, to the united st..., josephine butler ( 1828 - 1906) josephine butler was one of the great social reformers of the nineteenth century. although a deeply pious woman, she tirelessly campaigned f..., lena rice – irish ladies wimbledon champion helena bertha grace rice, known as ‘lena,' was born in 1866 and raised in marhill, near the village of new inn, tipperary, irelan..., aleen cust (1868-1937) - britain's first woman veterinary surgeon after the death of her father, sir leopold cust in 1878, aleen was forced to leave her birthplace at cordangan manor, tipperary, ireland, wh..., lady betty, the merciless hangwoman of roscommon lady betty was a notoriously cruel and fearful public executioner born around 1740, who according to sir william wilde (father of oscar wild..., daisy may bates, cbe ( 1859-1951) - welfare worker and journalist a journalist and self-taught anthropologist, daisy spent most of her adult life studying and campaigning for the welfare of the aborigines ..., annie edson taylor - daredevil pensioner october 24th 1901 would prove to be quite an eventful day for annie edson taylor, as not only was it her 63rd birthday, but it would also be..., lilian bland, pioneering aviatrix. in september 1910, the lesser known aviatrix lilian bland, not only flew ireland's first powered biplane, but was also the first woman i...]