[myenglishclub, just for serious and active people - . if ur active, join us, if not please do not waste your and my time - this group will depend mainly on improving skills of listening and speaking., you need to be a member of myenglishclub to add comments!, join myenglishclub, i introduce a website it is awesome and fantastic website to develop your english ability.it is absolutely free website .which  is consist english grammar pictures, english grammar videos, english quotes, the secret to success in english language, tips and trick to improve your english ability and best website to enhance your english language and more. it is my own website and i really happy to share my experience .i have just created for esl (english as a second language) ,ielts students and…, no description702429990_69079.jpg, i really need to practice my english during this month. somebody pls help me., (my skype id: david.feng79 ) i'm looking for someone with who i can practice my english speaking. i hope my partner share the same passion and interest with me,, actually  i found speaking english is interesting. i’m an upper-intermediate level english speaker., please, subscribe to get an access., report an issue  |  terms of service, © 2022 myenglishclub   powered by, please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.][improve your speaking, please read this before join us -----, forum, learn english perfect manner, untitled, english speaking friends, let's talk and talk again, then correct mistakes ourself, photos, hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.]improve your speaking - myenglishclub[hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.][, sign up, sign in, ec, myec user guide faq useful links winning page photo guidelines winning photo why was i banned?, user guide, faq, useful links, winning page, photo guidelines, winning photo, why was i banned?, blogs, discussion, videos, photos, members, groups, mypage, chat, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , home, members, forum, photos, gabriel sowrian april 20, 2022 3:24 those who seriously want to solve your pronunciation problem once and for all, please contact me on skype. it will take you only one month to achieve that goal. upon completion, you will be able to pronounce all the words listed in the dictionary accurately even without listening to any online/offline audio pronunciations at all. isn't that what you've been trying to achieve all this while but to no avail? now is the time to make it happen. my skype id ...: live:gabrielsowrian my skype link: https://join.skype.com/invite/lyxcrwqzi1a1, lily12 april 19, 2022 9:20 hi guys! please visit this free beta site my team made! it's for people who want to practice english freely. you can talk to people around the world 1:1! episoden.com, lindiomar celis santos january 23, 2022 14:12 hello good people! i am here to improve my english!. i would like to join this group!, abusied january 5, 2022 19:15 how do i join this group? please, add me in this group., abdullah jarif november 16, 2021 13:05 hello... i need a partner to practice my speakin.... https://join.skype.com/invite/xf0zxroyicvm join conversation skype keeps the world talking. call, message, and share whatever you want - for free., mauro october 28, 2021 17:21 hello everybody. i am from colombia and i want to improve my pronunciation, learn new vocabulary and sure make new friends. nice to meet you. gabriel sowrian > mauro october 28, 2021 17:34 hi, mauro! i can tell you what exactly you need to do to (not improve) solve your pronunciation problem once and for all. i can also show you how you could enrich your vocabulary. if you are interested to know about them, please contact me on skype. this is my skype link: https://join.skype.com/invite/lyxcrwqzi1a1 join conversation skype keeps the world talking. call, message, and share whatever you want - for free., gabriel sowrian > mauro october 28, 2021 17:34 hi, mauro! i can tell you what exactly you need to do to (not improve) solve your pronunciation problem once and for all. i can also show you how you could enrich your vocabulary. if you are interested to know about them, please contact me on skype. this is my skype link: https://join.skype.com/invite/lyxcrwqzi1a1 join conversation skype keeps the world talking. call, message, and share whatever you want - for free., daongo october 13, 2021 1:05 hello everyone. nice to meet you. i 'm an online learner of english. i can speak native vietnamese or english with you. my english skill level is intermediate. i'm looking for partners to improve my pronunciation problem. usually, people contact me to learn english. and i am here for that, too. i hope so too. we will be trying a good time to talk together by english. i' m willing to help you to improve your vietnamese or english. you can contact me on skype or myec. you don't hesitate to text me in private. i'm willing to reply your messenger when i have a couple time on that day or next day. this is my skype id sakura live:.cid.e913b08bb349298b, thanh nga august 23, 2021 10:51 hi guys, i'm from viet nam, i'm looking to improve my speaking skills, nice to meet you guys: this is my skype: live:.cid.74a664bb4d74ceea, sadeq may 15, 2021 16:07 hello everyone in this group ,iwould like practice english conversation in different topics ,culture,religion,politic, history ,science by use skype or another application., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5]