[adjectives - exercises to print, adverbs - printable exercises, comparatives/superlatives -, conditionals sentences-zero, first, second, third, conjunctions - coordinating, contrasting, future forms - future simple, perfect, continuous, gerunds & infinitives, modal verbs - can, may, might, should etc., nouns -, partitives - adjectives that describe a part ex. a piece of, a cup of, passive & past participles, past progressive or continuous tense, past simple and perfect tenses : past simple, present perfect ., phrasal verbs - verbs with a preposition usually with an idiomatic meaning. some are however easy to figure out like - sit down, prefixes and suffixes (affixes) & word formation, (prefixes and suffixes help us form new words in english. we can make new words by adding an affix to change or modify the meaning for ex. weak = weakness), prepositions - words like in, on under, by with, present simple , present continuous/progressive tenses, pronouns - words that take the place of nouns, proverbs & idioms, questions, verbs - a verb is an action or doing word in a sentence. it is the most important part of speech, kids& beginner course lessons - lessons by courses, course 1 lessons, unit  intro – alphabet & phonics resources. , aim: teach letters of the alphabet, unit   1 – greetings - hello, aim: teach basic greetings – hello, hi, goodbye., unit   2 – what’s your name?, aim: to teach kids how to say their names., unit   3 – how old are you?, aim: teach kids how to say their age and  learn numbers 1 to 5., unit   4 – numbers – how many?, aim: teach kids how to count from 1 to 10., unit   5 a – colours – what colour is it?, aim: teach kids how to describe things through colours., unit 5 b - colours vocabulary, aim: teach colours vocabulary, unit 5 c - green monster colours lesson, aim: teach colours through a colours songs, unit   6 – fruits – i like apples., aim: teach kids names of fruits and how to express likes., unit  7 – body – i have a head., aim: teach kids parts of the body., unit  8–  actions  – i can, i can’t., aim: teach kids how to express ability using simple action verbs., course 2 lessons, unit  1 – animals – farms animals. , aim: teach students how to express preference by using vocabulary related to farm animals., unit   2 – family members, aim: teach words and expressions used when describing family., unit  3 – school bag, aim: to teach words and expressions related to classroom items., unit   4 – actions – can and can’t  , aim: teach action verbs, unit   5 – shapes & sizes, aim: teach various shapes and adjectives to describe size., unit   6 – demonstrative pronouns – this/that/these/those, aim: teach  singular and plurals of nouns and demonstrative pronouns., unit   7 – numbers – 10 to 100, aim: teach numbers 10 to 100 and pronunciation differences between long and short vowels., unit  8 – toys – where is it?, aim: teach  words and expressions related to toys and to ask where things are., unit  9 –  days of the week and weekly activities, aim: teach days of the week and some things we do weekly., unit 10 -   weather – what’s the weather like?, aim: teach students how to ask about the weather and describe it., unit 11 -   food – what do you want to eat, aim: teach students about the things we eat and express want, course 3 lessons, unit  1 – pets : why do you like dogs?, aim: teach  names of pets and give a brief description of pets using personality adjectives., unit   2a – time – what time is it?, aim: teach students how to tell the time and also how to talk about daily routines., unit   2b – time – what time is it?, aim: teach students how to tell the time using quarter to/past/ half past etc., unit   3 – months & birthdays – when is your birthday?, aim: teach students months of the year and how to tell dates using months and ordinal numbers., unit   4 – jobs – what people do., aim: to teach kids how to describe jobs using action verbs., unit  5  – actions – what are you doing?, aim: students will learn how to describe actions in progress using the present progressive., unit   6 – transport – how do you come to school?, aim: teach students different means of transport and talk about going around., unit   7 – clothes – what are you wearing today?, aim: to learn to describe what someone is wearing., unit   8 –  where is it? – at home, aim: teach kids prepositions of place, alongside rooms and things at home., unit  9a – vegetables – how much are the carrots?, aim: teach kids vegetable vocabulary and how to go shopping for veggies., unit  9b – vegetables – extra vegetable vocabulary lesson - cauliflower, broccoli etc., aim: teach students extra vegetable vocabulary., unit  10 –  weather  and clothes  - put on your sunglasses., aim: teach kids how to talk about clothes relative to the weather., unit 11 -  zoo – what does a panda look like?, aim: to teach students how to describe zoo animals by what they eat and look like., phrasal verbs - verbs with a preposition usually with an idiomatic meaning. some are however easy to figure out like - sit down, prefixes and suffixes (affixes) & word formation, (prefixes and suffixes help us form new words in english. we can make new words by adding an affix to change or modify the meaning for ex. weak = weakness), nouns -, , esl lesson plans, bilingual resources,  , esl worksheet e-book, , 50 esl powerpoint lessons, , dictionaries- look up words:, cambridge dictionary search, , ][english vocabulary & grammar worksheets,  , english teachers, english students, grammar exercises to print, printable english vocabulary worksheets]free english grammar & vocabulary printable worksheets for esl teachers[adjectives, adverbs, comparatives/superlatives, as...as, conditionals sentences, conjunctions - coordinating, contrasting, future forms - future simple, perfect, continuous, gerunds & infinitives, ing, to, ing, to, modal verbs - can, may, might, should etc., "should", nouns -, partitives -, passive & past participles, past progressive or continuous tense, past simple and perfect tenses, past simple, present perfect ., phrasal verbs, sit down, prefixes and suffixes (affixes) & word formation, ex. weak = weakness, er, pop + singer = pop singer, prepositions, present simple , present continuous/progressive tenses, pronouns, proverbs & idioms, questions, verbs -, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, aim:, phrasal verbs, sit down, prefixes and suffixes (affixes) & word formation, ex. weak = weakness, er, pop + singer = pop singer, nouns -, pronunciation exercises, esl lesson plans, bilingual resources, learn chinese , esl downloads - shop, language tools, dictionaries, partners of esl tower, english media lab, esl-galaxy.com, esl kids lab, download-esl.com, chinese for trave][home, forum, fun games, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, partners, plus kizphonics esl games plus, kizphonics, esl games plus, grammar worksheets for use in teaching by efl, esl, elt & gse teachers, vocabulary exercises to print; arranged according to topics, pronunciation printables to teach phonetics, connected speech and more., grammar self-study exercises., vocabulary self-study exercises for use online, pronunciation self-study, learn phonetics, sounds of english, connected speech & tongue twisters, adjectives followed by prepositions, compound adjectives - easy-going etc., adjectives to nouns - make nouns from adj., extreme adjectives matching, personality adjectives, adverbs of frequency worksheets, adverbs of sequence worksheets, comparatives & superlatives quiz -1, animal comparatives & superlatives, pet shop price comparing using as...as, space comparatives and superlatives, zero conditionals - usually used for things that are always true, first conditionals - usually for things that have a logical end, conditional modals - might, should, had, mixed conditionals & other advanced grammar review, contrasting conjunctions - although, however, in spite of, despite, coordinating conjunctions, future simple vs simple past- using will, going to & present progressive, future forms, future continuous, future perfect, gerund and infinitives - ing & to -quiz 1, gerunds and pronouns, modal verb - using "should" for giving advice(coming soon), abstract nouns test., compound nouns, compound nouns, city word compound nouns, noun suffixes from verbs, word formation of nouns, a piece of, a cup of, a loaf of - crossword, food partitives - word puzzle, partitives board game, past participle forms of verbs 1- crossword -, past participle forms of verbs- 2 crossword -, past participle forms of verbs 3 crossword -, past continuous or progressive vs. past simple tense, simple past board game, simple past vs. future tense - crossword puzzle, present perfect tense vs simple past 1- find someone who, present perfect tense vs simple past 2 - board game, present perfect communicative activity using - ever & never, phrasal verbs 1 - missing preposition, phrasal verbs 2 - verb meaning, phrasal verbs matching exercise 1, phrasal verbs matching exercise 2, phrasal verbs matching exercise 3, adjectives from nouns using suffixes, jobs word suffixes - teach - teacher, jobs word formation with compound words- pop + singer = pop singer, verb to noun suffixes - add a suffix to make a noun, prefix meaning - matching exercise, prefix word base exercise 1, prefix word base exercise 2, prefix multiple choice exercise, assorted prepositions test, prepositions of place - in, on , under etc., verbs followed by prepositions, adjectives followed by prepositions, present simple vs. present progressive board game, present simple vs. present progressive game using business verbs, possessive pronoun - mine, yours , his, hers, etc.- crossword, possessive pronoun - beginners, impersonal pronouns and gerunds, proverbs and meaning matching exercise, proverbs board game - using proverb halves, tag questions multiple choice, questions words matching, q and a board game, indirect questions quiz, verbs tenses - present, past tenses, future, verbs gap fill exercise 2, verb tenses quiz - test your knowledge of english tenses, kids& beginner course lessons - lessons by courses course 1 lessons unit  intro – alphabet & phonics resources.  aim: teach letters of the alphabet unit   1 – greetings - hello aim: teach basic greetings – hello, hi, goodbye. unit   2 – what’s your name? aim: to teach kids how to say their names. unit   3 – how old are you? aim: teach kids how to say their age and  learn numbers 1 to 5. unit   4 – numbers – how many? aim: teach kids how to count from 1 to 10. unit   5 a – colours – what colour is it? aim: teach kids how to describe things through colours. unit 5 b - colours vocabulary aim: teach colours vocabulary unit 5 c - green monster colours lesson aim: teach colours through a colours songs unit   6 – fruits – i like apples. aim: teach kids names of fruits and how to express likes. unit  7 – body – i have a head. aim: teach kids parts of the body. unit  8–  actions  – i can, i can’t. aim: teach kids how to express ability using simple action verbs. course 2 lessons unit  1 – animals – farms animals.  aim: teach students how to express preference by using vocabulary related to farm animals. unit   2 – family members aim: teach words and expressions used when describing family. unit  3 – school bag aim: to teach words and expressions related to classroom items. unit   4 – actions – can and can’t   aim: teach action verbs unit   5 – shapes & sizes aim: teach various shapes and adjectives to describe size. unit   6 – demonstrative pronouns – this/that/these/those aim: teach  singular and plurals of nouns and demonstrative pronouns. unit   7 – numbers – 10 to 100 aim: teach numbers 10 to 100 and pronunciation differences between long and short vowels. unit  8 – toys – where is it? aim: teach  words and expressions related to toys and to ask where things are. unit  9 –  days of the week and weekly activities aim: teach days of the week and some things we do weekly. unit 10 -   weather – what’s the weather like? aim: teach students how to ask about the weather and describe it. unit 11 -   food – what do you want to eat aim: teach students about the things we eat and express want course 3 lessons unit  1 – pets : why do you like dogs? aim: teach  names of pets and give a brief description of pets using personality adjectives. unit   2a – time – what time is it? aim: teach students how to tell the time and also how to talk about daily routines. unit   2b – time – what time is it? aim: teach students how to tell the time using quarter to/past/ half past etc. unit   3 – months & birthdays – when is your birthday? aim: teach students months of the year and how to tell dates using months and ordinal numbers. unit   4 – jobs – what people do. aim: to teach kids how to describe jobs using action verbs. unit  5  – actions – what are you doing? aim: students will learn how to describe actions in progress using the present progressive. unit   6 – transport – how do you come to school? aim: teach students different means of transport and talk about going around. unit   7 – clothes – what are you wearing today? aim: to learn to describe what someone is wearing. unit   8 –  where is it? – at home aim: teach kids prepositions of place, alongside rooms and things at home. unit  9a – vegetables – how much are the carrots? aim: teach kids vegetable vocabulary and how to go shopping for veggies. unit  9b – vegetables – extra vegetable vocabulary lesson - cauliflower, broccoli etc. aim: teach students extra vegetable vocabulary. unit  10 –  weather  and clothes  - put on your sunglasses. aim: teach kids how to talk about clothes relative to the weather. unit 11 -  zoo – what does a panda look like? aim: to teach students how to describe zoo animals by what they eat and look like., action verbs, advertising & business english, animals - zoo, farm, pet animals, body parts - head, shoulder etc., british vs. american english, chores and housework, classroom and school subjects, clothes , dressing up, computer parts and electronic accessories, countries and cities, days, months, and ordinal numbers, describing people - physical appearance, environment - problems, solutions, family vocabulary, famous places - great wall, colosseum etc., food & drinks (general)-, food & adjectives to describe ( international food), fruits - apples, orange etc., health, sickness, hospitals and doctors, hobbies and recreation, fun activities, jobs and occupations, money and currency, movies - cartoons, horror - kinds of movies, music- instruments, music worksheets, numbers - cardinal & ordinal numbers, physical world- geography, landscapes & terrain, places around - & things we do at these places, products and materials - famous brands, routines, chores and daily obligations, solar systems - planets, sun, comparatives, sports - olympic sports, mainstream sports, taboos - public signs and notices, time - telling the time, transportation words - cars, truck etc., travel - getting away, vegetables - things we eat, weather and seasons, phrasal verbs 1 - missing preposition, phrasal verbs 2 - verb meaning, phrasal verbs matching exercise 1, phrasal verbs matching exercise 2, phrasal verbs matching exercise 3, adjectives from nouns using suffixes, jobs word suffixes - teach - teacher, jobs word formation with compound words- pop + singer = pop singer, verb to noun suffixes - add a suffix to make a noun, prefix meaning - matching exercise, prefix word base exercise 1, prefix word base exercise 2, prefix multiple choice exercise, abstract nouns test., compound nouns, compound nouns, city word compound nouns, noun suffixes from verbs, word formation of nouns, phonetic symbols, intonation exercise, tongue twisters, communicative board games, esl kids resources, printable word puzzles, esl grammar online, learn chinese , english media lab: carefully broken down into beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate and advanced, this website offers highly interactive grammar and vocabulary resources, esl-galaxy.com : an esl lesson plan portal. one of the best on the web- all free, esl kids lab- free resources for teaching kids, a large variety of free resources, download-esl.com : download english teaching and studying materials here- e-books, powerpoint & more, chinese for travel : learn to speak chinese now!]