[myenglishclub, , , , , i'm not sure how global the offer is but it doesn't hurt to try.,  , amazon is giving away 10 books from various world authors over the next 13 days.,  , https://www.amazon.com/article/read-the-world-2022/,  , if you have a kindle, and there is no restirction by, , , hey there book lovers! , did you know that today is the international children's book day?? ...of course you don't! but lucky you that i'm here to remind you., okay, no need to thank me, but instead you can tell me about your favorite readings as a child, , , i found this topic and i thought that it could be a funny thing to share here with all the myec crowd!, here it goes: , you're on a date and can only talk about the last thing you googled. so, what are you talkin' about? :p,  , , (here a pic 'cause i know some, , , do you think the news you get today is impartial and unbiased or is it "slanted" to present a message or narrative?, , ,  , in the german language, we have words that cannot be found in any other language., i think everyone knows the word "kindergarten"., it's used around the world, and i don't have to explain it., but there are some other words you may not know and that migh, , , watches after the smart phones. before we used to buy beautiful watches and make sure we have one on our wrists. now after the appearance of the cell phones it became less interesting. any ideas!, , ,  , history tells us about events that took place in the past while fiction is something invented or created by the imagination. fiction and history, are they related to each other?, thanks for your kind views., , , the russia president putin decided to war against ukraine. many countries blamed him, but he doesn't seem to mind it. this war may be going to become the world war ⅲ, because eu and the u.s will support ukraine. if the world war ⅲ would start, many p, , ,  , why do some people celebrate valentine's day? why does it correspond to the fourteenth of february? who is saint valentine and did he really sacrifice his life for love? we also heard that he was killed. some stories said that he used to love and ma, , please, subscribe to get an access., report discussion, report an issue  |  terms of service, © 2022 myenglishclub   powered by, please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.][esl discussion, general discussion (2572), happy mother's day - for the parts of the world celebrating it may 8 (or 10th for mexico), amazon giving away free ebooks for world book day, what was your favorite book as a child?, i want to make your day more fun, so come here to check this topic, is your news biased?, do you know words that only exist in your native language?, handwatches and smart phones, history and fiction, what can we do to stop the world war ⅲ?, saint valentine, hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.]general discussion - esl discussion - myenglishclub[international children's book day, you're on a date and can only talk about the last thing you googled., so, what are you talkin' about? :p, in the german language, we have words that cannot be found in any other language., kindergarten, watches after the smart phones. before we used to buy beautiful watches and make sure we have one on our wrists. now after the appearance of the cell phones it became less interesting. any ideas!, history tells us about events that took place in the past w, hile fiction is something invented or created by the imagination., fiction and history, are they related to each other?, thanks for your kind views., hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.][, sign up, sign in, ec, myec user guide faq useful links winning page photo guidelines winning photo why was i banned?, user guide, faq, useful links, winning page, photo guidelines, winning photo, why was i banned?, blogs, discussion, videos, photos, members, groups, mypage, chat, all discussions, featured discussions, introductions, general discussion, english help, tech help, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5]