[in this newly revised edition of the bill of rights: a user’s guide, award-winning author and constitutional scholar linda r. monk explores the remarkable history of the first ten amendments to the constitution. with a foreword by supreme court justice ruth bader ginsburg, the book analyzes each amendment, the supreme court’s interpretation of every right, and the power of citizens to enforce those rights. the book also examines the fourteenth amendment, which nationalized the bill of rights and extended new rights of equality to all. the bill of rights: a user’s guide won the american bar association’s silver gavel award, its highest honor for public education about the law. learn more…, “linda monk reveals that the framers actually opposed enumerating citizens’ rights in the constitution and added the first ten amendments only because ordinary americans insisted. it’s our bill of rights, and its arcane language and often tortured history come brilliantly back to life in monk’s fast-paced narrative.”, “an even-handed model of concision and clarity… invaluable to any citizen interested in what the bill of rights means and how it is applied to real-world disputes. it is hard to imagine anyone producing a more thorough and illuminating guide for lay readers.”, “the constitution and bill of rights are in the news almost every day and citizens of all ages and walks of life are hungry for more information about both. linda has become a master at writing balanced, accessible, and insightful guides to our nation’s founding documents. if you want to get informed and stay informed, pick up this book”, “it’s hard to make the bill of rights accessible to everyone without talking down to anyone, but this fine book manages to do just that.”, linda r. monk, j.d., is a constitutional scholar, journalist, and nationally award-winning author, whose passion is the u.s. constitution and the american story. her trademark is using an accessible, narrative style to explore deep truths about our constitutional democracy. a graduate of harvard law school, she conveys this depth of knowledge in a manner that is relevant to everyday citizens. as a result, she twice won the american bar association’s silver gavel award, its highest honor for public education about the law. her work has been featured on pbs, voice of america, msnbc, c-span, and npr, and she writes commentary for newspapers nationwide. she also presents seminars and lectures for a variety of audiences—including the pentagon, national archives, fulbright scholars, smithsonian, george washington’s mount vernon, and national history day. learn more…, linda is available to speak to your group or consult with your company on legal and historical topics., exciting, illuminating book the words we live by makes the constitution come alive by nat hentoff, monk subtitled her book “your annotated guide to the constitution,” but it is actually a swinging adventure story of how americans came to define themselves as a nation through the struggle to keep the constitution functioning as the guarantor of our most fundamental liberties., without exaggeration, i am convinced that this book should be taught in every classroom, and be on every citizen’s reading list as an essential reference manual for evaluating candidates in the upcoming 2016 elections. read more…, linda monk speaks to the u.s. capitol historical society about article i of the constitution., sign up for the mailing list to learn about news & events from linda monk:, we're not around right now. but you can send us an email and we'll get back to you, asap.][the bill of rights, a user’s guide, about the author, speaking & consultation, in the news, does congress give the president too much power?, from the blog, we the whole people, follow on twitter, mailing list]linda monk: constitution lady[opposed, our, exciting, illuminating book the words we live by makes the constitution come alive][home, books the bill of rights: a user’s guide the words we live by ordinary americans, the bill of rights: a user’s guide, the words we live by, ordinary americans, about, media & resources, blog, contact, home, books the bill of rights: a user’s guide the words we live by ordinary americans, the bill of rights: a user’s guide, the words we live by, ordinary americans, about, media & resources, blog, contact, “linda monk reveals that the framers actually opposed enumerating citizens’ rights in the constitution and added the first ten amendments only because ordinary americans insisted. it’s our bill of rights, and its arcane language and often tortured history come brilliantly back to life in monk’s fast-paced narrative.” woody holton author of unruly americans and the origins of the constitution (national book award finalist), “an even-handed model of concision and clarity… invaluable to any citizen interested in what the bill of rights means and how it is applied to real-world disputes. it is hard to imagine anyone producing a more thorough and illuminating guide for lay readers.” steve chapman chicago tribune, “the constitution and bill of rights are in the news almost every day and citizens of all ages and walks of life are hungry for more information about both. linda has become a master at writing balanced, accessible, and insightful guides to our nation’s founding documents. if you want to get informed and stay informed, pick up this book” julie silverbrook the constitutional sources project, “it’s hard to make the bill of rights accessible to everyone without talking down to anyone, but this fine book manages to do just that.” laurence h. tribe harvard law school, home, books the bill of rights: a user’s guide the words we live by ordinary americans, the bill of rights: a user’s guide, the words we live by, ordinary americans, about, media & resources, blog, contact]