[myenglishclub, hello ec people*! (yes, the *1 or 2 members that are still here around), i've seen a bunch of nice movies lately, so i've been thinking that:, 1) since my movie taste is insanely good and  2) i'm super generous and i don't mind to share my film knowledge (once again, no need to thank me), here is this blog post about some movie recommendations:,  , 1. a funny one:, what we do in the shadows, ok, let's start with a funny one. i'm not into movies about vampires, but this one is very different. vampires doing vampire routine, dealing with complexities of modern life., ,  , 2. a sad one:, a ghost story, how would be to die and stay as a ghost, watching passively all the life you left behind? not really funny :p the rhythm is a bit slow but it's necessary, since this movie wants you to feel really sad and depressed. but seriously... it's a beautiful movie, so i recommend it., ,  , 3. a 'hard to watch' one:, come and see., hard to review... i just can say that it's a total masterpiece (yes, with cap letters) considered one of the greatest anti-war movies ever made.  disturbing and brutally honest (it doesn't fall to romanticism and sensationalism as ww2 hollywood's films do) it's hard to watch, but i'd say it is very necessary, taking in mind the current world's events., ,  , 4. a weird one:, the killing of a sacred deer, if you're into not conventional stuff, you'd love this movie (well, and all what this film director does -i personally love all his movies) twisted and disturbing. one of the most uncomfortable films you'll ever see...  don't you feel already like watching it right now?! :p, ,  , okay, enough for this blog. probably none of the 2 or 3 members who are gonna read this blog will watch any of these movies, but oh well... i'm fine just writing about it., btw, if you have any movie recommendation, feel free to write it in the comments.  au revoir!,  ,  , awesomegurl, you need to be a member of myenglishclub to add comments!, join myenglishclub, i tend to read rather than watch tv or movies but maybe i'll check out some of these.  , an older one -  tom hanks in the terminal is good and based on a true story (historical fiction i suppose), oh btw, if you really end up watching any of these movies, plz, don't hesitate to come here to tell me about it... it's gonna be interesting :d,  , hey mr tim! nice to see you here., oh yeah, i know about that... "reading rather than (whatever)"   i'm a bookworm too, but i also love cinema 'cause both (books and movies) are about telling stories. that's the main thing... no matter which is the language (words or images) so... that's my theory of why i think that people who like reading also have to like movies! :p  , the terminal, yup, i've seen that one. not bad for watching on a lazy sunday., thanks for dropping by!, report post, report an issue  |  terms of service, © 2022 myenglishclub   powered by, please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.][esl blogs, movies you need to watch because i said so, hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.]movies you need to watch because i said so - esl blogs - myenglishclub[1. a funny one:, 2. a sad one:, 3. a 'hard to watch' one:, 4. a weird one:, hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.][, sign up, sign in, ec, myec user guide faq useful links winning page photo guidelines winning photo why was i banned?, user guide, faq, useful links, winning page, photo guidelines, winning photo, why was i banned?, blogs, discussion, videos, photos, members, groups, mypage, chat, all posts, featured posts, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , tim new april 15, 2022 0:08 i tend to read rather than watch tv or movies but maybe i'll check out some of these.   an older one -  tom hanks in the terminal is good and based on a true story (historical fiction i suppose) mary > tim new april 15, 2022 1:24 oh btw, if you really end up watching any of these movies, plz, don't hesitate to come here to tell me about it... it's gonna be interesting :d   mary > tim new april 15, 2022 1:20 hey mr tim! nice to see you here. oh yeah, i know about that... "reading rather than (whatever)"   i'm a bookworm too, but i also love cinema 'cause both (books and movies) are about telling stories. that's the main thing... no matter which is the language (words or images) so... that's my theory of why i think that people who like reading also have to like movies! :p   the terminal, yup, i've seen that one. not bad for watching on a lazy sunday. thanks for dropping by!, mary > tim new april 15, 2022 1:24 oh btw, if you really end up watching any of these movies, plz, don't hesitate to come here to tell me about it... it's gonna be interesting :d  , mary > tim new april 15, 2022 1:20 hey mr tim! nice to see you here. oh yeah, i know about that... "reading rather than (whatever)"   i'm a bookworm too, but i also love cinema 'cause both (books and movies) are about telling stories. that's the main thing... no matter which is the language (words or images) so... that's my theory of why i think that people who like reading also have to like movies! :p   the terminal, yup, i've seen that one. not bad for watching on a lazy sunday. thanks for dropping by!]