[myenglishclub, do you think the news you get today is impartial and unbiased or is it "slanted" to present a message or narrative?, you need to be a member of myenglishclub to add comments!, join myenglishclub, oi tim ! my news i've got today is unbiased . examp : inflation has been a growing topic of concern for most investors in recent months .the last inflation figures are well above central bank targets in both the us and canada . (from  the news) never consider news biased ., i do not currently believe in impartiality. the truth always demands a position from the writer or narrator. a blessed week for you and your family!, all are partial but there is a difference between taking a stand and presenting information as "fact" which is nothing but opinion.  i was taught to separate think from know., i have learned that what a man thinks and knows may remain with him, but when he publicly exposes it with a purpose, he takes a stand in the face of reality.thank you!, not sure if there ever was truly impartial "news", but certainly the news today is getting so slanted it will soon be horizontal, no but i'm old enough to remember when news at least made some effort to present information from all sides and identify opinion as opinion., everyone has biases but when you realize what your bias is it allows you to understand you may not be seeing it clearly., well put,  unbiased? the corporate owned mass media? yes, yes... of course... , ,  , or possibly..., we are drowning in knowledge but starved for wisdom 🤔, drowning in information maybe rather than knowledge, report discussion, report an issue  |  terms of service, © 2022 myenglishclub   powered by, please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.][esl discussion, is your news biased?, hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.]is your news biased? - esl discussion - myenglishclub[hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.][, sign up, sign in, ec, myec user guide faq useful links winning page photo guidelines winning photo why was i banned?, user guide, faq, useful links, winning page, photo guidelines, winning photo, why was i banned?, blogs, discussion, videos, photos, members, groups, mypage, chat, all discussions, featured discussions, introductions, general discussion, english help, tech help, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , adriano martelli april 5, 2022 10:18 oi tim ! my news i've got today is unbiased . examp : inflation has been a growing topic of concern for most investors in recent months .the last inflation figures are well above central bank targets in both the us and canada . (from  the news) never consider news biased ., josi a april 3, 2022 15:00 i do not currently believe in impartiality. the truth always demands a position from the writer or narrator. a blessed week for you and your family! tim new > josi a april 3, 2022 18:26 all are partial but there is a difference between taking a stand and presenting information as "fact" which is nothing but opinion.  i was taught to separate think from know. josi a > tim new april 4, 2022 16:02 i have learned that what a man thinks and knows may remain with him, but when he publicly exposes it with a purpose, he takes a stand in the face of reality.thank you!, tim new > josi a april 3, 2022 18:26 all are partial but there is a difference between taking a stand and presenting information as "fact" which is nothing but opinion.  i was taught to separate think from know., josi a > tim new april 4, 2022 16:02 i have learned that what a man thinks and knows may remain with him, but when he publicly exposes it with a purpose, he takes a stand in the face of reality.thank you!, josef essberger april 3, 2022 13:51 not sure if there ever was truly impartial "news", but certainly the news today is getting so slanted it will soon be horizontal tim new > josef essberger april 3, 2022 18:23 no but i'm old enough to remember when news at least made some effort to present information from all sides and identify opinion as opinion. everyone has biases but when you realize what your bias is it allows you to understand you may not be seeing it clearly. josef essberger > tim new april 4, 2022 6:45 well put, tim new > josef essberger april 3, 2022 18:23 no but i'm old enough to remember when news at least made some effort to present information from all sides and identify opinion as opinion. everyone has biases but when you realize what your bias is it allows you to understand you may not be seeing it clearly., josef essberger > tim new april 4, 2022 6:45 well put, mary april 3, 2022 1:09  unbiased? the corporate owned mass media? yes, yes... of course...    josef essberger > mary april 3, 2022 13:43 or possibly... we are drowning in knowledge but starved for wisdom 🤔 tim new > josef essberger april 3, 2022 18:24 drowning in information maybe rather than knowledge, josef essberger > mary april 3, 2022 13:43 or possibly... we are drowning in knowledge but starved for wisdom 🤔, tim new > josef essberger april 3, 2022 18:24 drowning in information maybe rather than knowledge, 1, 2]