[myenglishclub, i'm not sure how global the offer is but it doesn't hurt to try.,  , amazon is giving away 10 books from various world authors over the next 13 days.,  , https://www.amazon.com/article/read-the-world-2022/,  , if you have a kindle, and there is no restirction by amazon where you live, why not get free english literature?, there's a couple i'll definitely read but i made sure i had all 10 - free is free after all.  if i have it, i can read it.  if i don't have it, i can't., you need to be a member of myenglishclub to add comments!, join myenglishclub, uhm interesting, thanks for sharing. i like that every author is from a different country., btw how generous of mr. bezos, to give stuff for 'free'... i wonder how is that he became filthy rich ¬¬,  , i think this could be a nice discussion for sharing resources or sites to find some online-free-reading-stuff.  so, here i put my two cents:, project gutenberg - library of over 60,000 free ebooks, internet archive - over 20,000 freely downloadable books and texts, these sites only have 'classic' books... but at least they are 'generous' all year long, so no need to hurry ;), actually amazon always has free ebooks available.  they are not the easiest to find now though.  just go to ebooks, select a genre and then sort the books lowest price to highest. you should see $0.00 as the lowest price which is of course free. , i think google books also has some free books, report discussion, report an issue  |  terms of service, © 2022 myenglishclub   powered by, please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.][esl discussion, amazon giving away free ebooks for world book day, hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.]amazon giving away free ebooks for world book day - esl discussion - myenglishclub[hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.][, sign up, sign in, ec, myec user guide faq useful links winning page photo guidelines winning photo why was i banned?, user guide, faq, useful links, winning page, photo guidelines, winning photo, why was i banned?, blogs, discussion, videos, photos, members, groups, mypage, chat, all discussions, featured discussions, introductions, general discussion, english help, tech help, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , mary april 15, 2022 2:31 uhm interesting, thanks for sharing. i like that every author is from a different country. btw how generous of mr. bezos, to give stuff for 'free'... i wonder how is that he became filthy rich ¬¬   i think this could be a nice discussion for sharing resources or sites to find some online-free-reading-stuff.  so, here i put my two cents: project gutenberg - library of over 60,000 free ebooks internet archive - over 20,000 freely downloadable books and texts these sites only have 'classic' books... but at least they are 'generous' all year long, so no need to hurry ;) project gutenberg project gutenberg is a library of free ebooks. tim new > mary april 15, 2022 14:02 actually amazon always has free ebooks available.  they are not the easiest to find now though.  just go to ebooks, select a genre and then sort the books lowest price to highest. you should see $0.00 as the lowest price which is of course free.  i think google books also has some free books, tim new > mary april 15, 2022 14:02 actually amazon always has free ebooks available.  they are not the easiest to find now though.  just go to ebooks, select a genre and then sort the books lowest price to highest. you should see $0.00 as the lowest price which is of course free.  i think google books also has some free books]