[ , easy english tongue twisters + mp3 downloads . the mp3 downloads have a higher sound quality than the online versions. the downloadable mp3 are for esl teachers and students who want to carry the files away on pc or ipods., big black bear : a big black bug bit the big black bear, but the big black bear bit the big black bug back!download this mp3 1/ mp3 2, clam cream can: how can a clam cram in a clean cream can?download this mp3, four furious friends: four furious friends fought for the phone.download this mp3, green glass globes: green glass globes glow greenly.download this mp3, ice cream : i scream, you scream, we all scream for ice cream!.download this mp3, sandwich sane witch: there's a sandwich on the sand which was sent by a sane witch.download this mp3, spell new york: knife and a fork, bottle and a cork, that is the way you spell new york.download this mp3, i saw susie: i saw susie sitting in a shoe shine shop.download this mp3,  , can you can a can: can you can a can as a canner can can a can?download this mp3, copyright: when you write copy you have the right to copyright the copy you write.download this mp3, fuzzy wuzzy: fuzzy wuzzy was a bear, fuzzy wuzzy had no hair, fuzzy wuzzy wasn't very fuzzy, was he?download this mp3, good cook : how many cookies could a good cook cook if a good cook could cook cookies? a good cook could cook as much cookies as a good cook who could cook cookies.download this mp3, how many cans ?: how many cans can a cannibal nibble, if a cannibal can nibble cans? as many cans as a cannibal can nibble if a cannibal can nibble cans.download this mp3, i have got a date: i have got a date at a quarter to eight; i’ll see you at the gate,so don’t be late.download this mp3, i thought of thinking: i thought, i thought of thinking of thanking you.download this mp3, one one : one-one was a race horse. two-two was one too. one-one won one race. two-two won one too.download this mp3, peter piper: peter piper picked a peck of pickled peppers. a peck of pickled peppers peter piper picked. if peter piper picked a peck of pickled peppers, where's the peck of pickled peppers peter piper picked?download this mp3, seven slick snails: seven slick slimy snails, slowly sliding southward.download this mp3, spell chicago: chicken in the car and the car can go, that is the way you spell chicago. download this mp3, thirty three thieves: the thirty-three thieves thought that they thrilled the throne throughout thursday.download this mp3, two witches, two watches: if two witches would watch two watches, which witch would watch which watch?download this mp3, understand: if you understand, say ""understand"". if you don't understand, say ""don't understand"". but if you understand and say ""don't understand"". how do i understand that you understand?download this mp3, whether the weather: whether the weather be fine, or whether the weather be not. whether the weather be cold, or whether the weather be hot. we'll weather the weather whether we like it or not.download this mp3, betty butter: betty bought some butter, but the butter betty bought was bitter, so betty bought some better butter, and the better butter betty bought was better than the bitter butter betty bought before!download this mp3, biscuit mixer: i bought a bit of baking powder and baked a batch of biscuits. i brought a big basket of biscuits back to the bakery and baked a basket of big biscuits. then i took the big basket of biscuits and the basket of big biscuits and mixed the big biscuits with the basket of biscuits that was next to the big basket and put a bunch of biscuits from the basket into a biscuit mixer and brought the basket of biscuits and the box of mixed biscuits and the biscuit mixer to the bakery and opened a tin of sardines. download this mp3, doctor doctoring: when a doctor doctors a doctor, does the doctor doing the doctoring doctor as the doctor being doctored wants to be doctored or does the doctor doing the doctoring doctor as he wants to doctor?download this mp3, mary mac: mary mac's mother's making mary mac marry me. my mother's making me marry mary mac. will i always be so merry when mary's taking care of me? will i always be so merry when i marry mary mac? download this mp3, nature watcher: out in the pasture the nature watcher watches the catcher. while the catcher watches the pitcher who pitches the balls. whether the temperature's up or whether the temperature's down, the nature watcher, the catcher and the pitcher are always around. the pitcher pitches, the catcher catches and the watcher watches. so whether the temperature's rises or whether the temperature falls the nature watcher just watches the catcher who's watching the pitcher who's watching the balls. download this mp3 by sharon johnson, wish to wish: i wish to wish the wish you wish to wish, but if you wish the wish the witch wishes, i won't wish the wish you wish to wish.download this mp3,  , , teach english phonetic pronunciation using ipa. this course package offers a number of resources. there are mp3, worksheets, flashcards, charts, powerpoint presentations and more to make the teaching of pronunciation very easy. tongue twisters with mp3 audio and a bbc audio chart puts in your hand the most comprehensive pronunciation course., preview content>>, , , ,  , ,  , 81 pages of alphabet, vocabulary and handwriting practice. best way to start teaching english. - download samples, - 81 pages of printable exercies- download after purchase,  , ,  , contains 41 pages of long and short vowel practice, vowel reading exercises through text mazes. practice beginning vowel sounds, middle vowel sounds, rhyming pairs and lots more. download the following free samples., ,  , , 45 pages download. consonants ebook contains: consonant blends exercises, beginning consonants, digraphs and trigraphs, ending consonants, board games and more. download free samples.,  , , , , , , , kids course ebooks- teach english to kids with professionally designed materials.our esl/efl/esol english for kids courseware is a hot item on most english teacher's shopping lists with good reason. whether you are using our materials as a full time course for your school curriculum or supplementary materials for your young learners' lessons, there is something here for everyone. take a tour of the contents and see for yourself. over 300 exercises in this book. they include: printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations, mp3 audio and all the tools you need to deliver a fantastic lesson to esl/efl young learners. there is something in here for everyone.the ebook has a built-in search engine which makes it easy for you to find stuff.,  , , worksheet ebooks- over 1000 pages of printable exercises in quality pdf. be the star teacher or school by delivering effective lessons. get printables and more in one bundle. never again stress out on lesson planning. looking for printable teaching materials? these printable worksheets will save you time. we are dedicated to making the lives of teachers a lot easier. we empower new and old teachers with fresh ideas for their lessons. there are esl/efl board games, grammar worksheets, vocabulary worksheets, kids worksheets, crossword and word search puzzles to teach beginners to advanced level students. »»check this out,  , (100 pdf exercises & 100 answer sheets), , math workbook 1 is a content-rich downloadable zip file with 100 printable exercises and 100 pages of answer sheets attached to each exercise. this product is suitable for preschool, kindergarten and grade 1. the product is available for instant download after purchase. not convinced? take a video tour by clicking on the e-book icon to your left., take a video tour - click here>>>,  , download a variety of grammar, vocabulary, phonetics, puzzles and education ebooks in pdf and zip file formats., our content-rich kids course can be used as a full-time esl school course or supplementary materials for teaching esl kids., teach english and other subjects with powerpoint presentations. ppt makes your teaching come alive.it's is a must for teachers., we have a collection of cool math resources for kindergarten, preschool, 1st to 6th grades. easy math teaching materials!, on this site, we have a collection of survival chinese materials for learning mandarin - ipod videos, flash videos, games, quizzes>>, here are some of the products you may also be interested in., , grammar & vocabulary quizzes for free and commercial online self-access learning. computers have changed the way we study by offering students a great chance toward self-study. on this site we have put together key english grammar and vocabulary quizzes for self-tutoring. our quizzes include: multiple choice, gap fill, word puzzles with clues, spelling quizzes, matching quizzes, short answers and more. they can be used by both teachers and students in their learning and teaching of english grammar and vocabulary. to help you easily teach or study with them, we have divided the quizzes into all the stages of english learning i.e kids, beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate & upper-intermediate/advanced level quizzes. these quizzes will give students a command of key english grammar and vocabulary. while these quizzes are absolutely free for online use, you can buy them and keep for offline browsing. »»check this out, download english video slide lessons for use on ipods, pcs or laptops.these videos are lesson presentations built with powerpoint. learn & teach new vocabulary, pronunciation, spelling and sentence structures with videos that can be used for self-tutoring or teaching in larger classrooms. our videos are excellent tools for beginner, elementary and pre-intermediate level students. »»check this out, ,  , math workbooks 1, 2 and 3 are content-rich downloadable zip files with 100s of math printable exercises and 100s of pages of answer sheets attached to each exercise. this product is suitable for preschool, kindergarten and grade 1 to 6th grade. the product is available for instant download after purchase. not convinced? take a video tour by clicking on the e-book icon to your left.,  ,  , , chinese mp3 and audio scripts: download the mp3 audio and the audio transcripts. the audio are of the highest quality and very good for listening. chinese-ilab.com offers you the resources to help you learn chinese yourself. the audio contains useful phrases and vocabulary, clearly laid out with translations in pinyin chinese and chinese characters all geared towards facilitating your learning., chinese video lessons: download our highly instructive beginner and elementary video slide lessons for use on your ipods, iphones, pdas and mp4 devices. for ipod/iphone users, simply use itunes like you always do to sync them to your ipod/iphones. there are 20 communicative video lessons and 25 vocabulary video slides.,  , -your websites have helped me more than i can say. thank you for all the work you have done in developing them. yours sincerely,, david nebauer, australia 2007-3-15, -hello mr/ms kisito,, i am the elearning adviser to our skills for life faculty here at city of bristol college.  i have recently discovered your website for use by our students and would like to say how great it is. the materials are excellent and the links to other materials are very helpful. i have added a link to it from our own in-college vle (we use blackboard) so that students and tutors can find it when they are accessing materials from home and within college.  thank you for working so hard at such a useful resource.   kind regards, stella dearsley, e-learning advisor, we provide the most practical materials for esl/efl, chinese language and math education. our products are mostly esl and language related. our products are delivered as zip files, powerpoint, cd/dvd. teachers and students will find printable ebooks, powerpoint lessons, video slides and audio podcasts, esl worksheets,quizzes, audiobook readers, powerpoint and more resources for teaching and studying english as a second language.students with ipods can download ready-made ipod compatible podcasts for self-tutoring of english. mp3 for english listening with texts read at clear and reasonable speeds. your mobile phone, ipod, laptop, mp3 players are all language learning tools. download our videos, mp3 and interactive tests to help you learn english., since its creation in 2005, the esl galaxy has rapidly expanded into a portal site with its own sub-sites. this six-in-one website includes : esltower.com, english-4kids.com, englishmedialab.com & download-esl.com and chinesefortravel.com. eslkidslab.com, eslgamesworld.com. with over 6556 resources, we lead the way with offering free resources for english teaching and learning. our resources range from printable worksheets to computer-assisted esl materials. our team is made up of full-time english teachers who are still creating and updating this website on an almost daily basis., we have esl, efl, tefl,tesl,math, chinese, mandarin, download,ebook,e-book, podcasts, ipod video, esl resources,mp3,listening,learning materials,english,teaching materials,download videos,podcast video,esl lesson plans,grammar exercises,reading comprehension,ielts,language podcast,esl worksheets,exercises, online listening, printable worksheets,esl grammar, esl activities,ipod,esl video podcast, teach english,learn english, using ipod,podcast,tongue twisters, audio books, powerpoint,lesson plan powerpoint,vocabulary,powerpoint,reading, writing, interactive,powerpoint presentations,classroom,videocasts,, audiocasts,mp3,download, print, printable,worksheets,, english teachers,teach esl, efl, esol, tefl,tesol][, tongue twisters for pronunciation practice+ free mp3 downloads, easy tongue twisters, medium tongue twisters- try these slightly more difficult tongue twisters, difficult english tongue twisters, teach english pronunciation - esl phonetic courseware, esl phonetics pack - download, buy now! $ 15 us dollars,  , our free esl & education sites,  , phonics ebooks - downloads, pack 1 - abc phonics/handwriting pack, $ 12 usd - buy now, pack 2 - vowel sounds pack - 41 pages, $ 10 usd - buy now, pack 3 - consonant sounds pack, $ 11 usd - buy now, 4- get it all - combined phonics ebooks, $ 29.9 usd - buy the all-in-one pack.,  , esl kids course downloads, esl grammar & vocabulary ebooks.,  , , math e-book - workbook 1 - for pre-k, kindergarten & 1st grade,  , , featured products, interactive: vocabulary and grammar quizzes & game cds, math products: math e-books & cds, mandarin chinese language learning tools,  , user feedback, , what we do at download-esl.com, product pages, hottest products, free stuff, site profile& links, about the esl-galaxy.com & download-esl.com, website focus, esl young learners, interactive exercises, products of download-esl.com]esl tongue twisters for english pronunciation practice[, big black bear, download this mp3 1/ mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, download this mp3, mp3, worksheets, flashcards, charts, powerpoint presentations, tongue twisters with mp3 audio, preview content>>, esl games world, esl kids lab, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com, chinese-ilab.com, english-4kids.com, esltower.com, englishmedialab.com, learn chinese online, 81 pages of alphabet, vocabulary, text mazes, 45 pages, consonant blends, beginning consonants,, , printables worksheets, flashcards, powerpoint presentations, video presentations, mp3 audio, esl, , math workbook 1, zip, 100 printable exercises, preschool, kindergarten, grade 1, , grammar & vocabulary quizzes, kids, beginner, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate & upper-intermediate/advanced level quizzes, , math workbooks 1, 2 and 3 are, zip, 100s of math printable exercises, preschool, kindergarten, grade 1 to 6th grade, , since its creation in 2005, the esl galaxy has rapidly expanded into a portal site with its own sub-sites. this six-in-one website includes : esltower.com, english-4kids.com, englishmedialab.com & download-esl.com and chinesefortravel.com. eslkidslab.com, eslgamesworld.com. with over 6556 resources, we lead the way with offering free resources for english teaching and learning. our resources range from printable worksheets to computer-assisted esl materials. our team is made up of full-time english teachers who are still creating and updating this website on an almost daily basis., website focus we have esl, efl, tefl,tesl,math, chinese, mandarin, download,ebook,e-book, podcasts, ipod video, esl resources,mp3,listening,learning materials,english,teaching materials,download videos,podcast video,esl lesson plans,grammar exercises,reading comprehension,ielts,language podcast,esl worksheets,exercises, online listening, printable worksheets,esl grammar, esl activities,ipod,esl video podcast, teach english,learn english, using ipod,podcast,tongue twisters, audio books, powerpoint,lesson plan powerpoint,vocabulary,powerpoint,reading, writing, interactive,powerpoint presentations,classroom,videocasts, audiocasts,mp3,download, print, printable,worksheets, english teachers,teach esl, efl, esol, tefl,tesol, , , , , esl young learners kids worksheets games for kids lessons phonics rescources flashcards video lessons interactive exercises grammar quizzes vocabulary quizzes video slides pronunciation exercises online practice exercises products of download-esl.com esl kids ebooks powerpoint packs math ebooks grammar/vocab ebooks esl courseware downloads home | copyright | contact | about][home, e-books, kids, powerpoint, games, videos, quizzes, math, , big black bear : a big black bug bit the big black bear, but the big black bear bit the big black bug back!download this mp3 1/ mp3 2, clam cream can: how can a clam cram in a clean cream can?download this mp3, four furious friends: four furious friends fought for the phone.download this mp3, green glass globes: green glass globes glow greenly.download this mp3, ice cream : i scream, you scream, we all scream for ice cream!.download this mp3, sandwich sane witch: there's a sandwich on the sand which was sent by a sane witch.download this mp3, spell new york: knife and a fork, bottle and a cork, that is the way you spell new york.download this mp3, i saw susie: i saw susie sitting in a shoe shine shop.download this mp3, can you can a can: can you can a can as a canner can can a can?download this mp3, copyright: when you write copy you have the right to copyright the copy you write.download this mp3, fuzzy wuzzy: fuzzy wuzzy was a bear, fuzzy wuzzy had no hair, fuzzy wuzzy wasn't very fuzzy, was he?download this mp3, good cook : how many cookies could a good cook cook if a good cook could cook cookies? a good cook could cook as much cookies as a good cook who could cook cookies.download this mp3, how many cans ?: how many cans can a cannibal nibble, if a cannibal can nibble cans? as many cans as a cannibal can nibble if a cannibal can nibble cans.download this mp3, i have got a date: i have got a date at a quarter to eight; i’ll see you at the gate,so don’t be late.download this mp3, i thought of thinking: i thought, i thought of thinking of thanking you.download this mp3, one one : one-one was a race horse. two-two was one too. one-one won one race. two-two won one too.download this mp3, peter piper: peter piper picked a peck of pickled peppers. a peck of pickled peppers peter piper picked. if peter piper picked a peck of pickled peppers, where's the peck of pickled peppers peter piper picked?download this mp3, seven slick snails: seven slick slimy snails, slowly sliding southward.download this mp3, spell chicago: chicken in the car and the car can go, that is the way you spell chicago. download this mp3, thirty three thieves: the thirty-three thieves thought that they thrilled the throne throughout thursday.download this mp3, two witches, two watches: if two witches would watch two watches, which witch would watch which watch?download this mp3, understand: if you understand, say ""understand"". if you don't understand, say ""don't understand"". but if you understand and say ""don't understand"". how do i understand that you understand?download this mp3, whether the weather: whether the weather be fine, or whether the weather be not. whether the weather be cold, or whether the weather be hot. we'll weather the weather whether we like it or not.download this mp3, betty butter: betty bought some butter, but the butter betty bought was bitter, so betty bought some better butter, and the better butter betty bought was better than the bitter butter betty bought before!download this mp3, biscuit mixer: i bought a bit of baking powder and baked a batch of biscuits. i brought a big basket of biscuits back to the bakery and baked a basket of big biscuits. then i took the big basket of biscuits and the basket of big biscuits and mixed the big biscuits with the basket of biscuits that was next to the big basket and put a bunch of biscuits from the basket into a biscuit mixer and brought the basket of biscuits and the box of mixed biscuits and the biscuit mixer to the bakery and opened a tin of sardines. download this mp3, doctor doctoring: when a doctor doctors a doctor, does the doctor doing the doctoring doctor as the doctor being doctored wants to be doctored or does the doctor doing the doctoring doctor as he wants to doctor?download this mp3, mary mac: mary mac's mother's making mary mac marry me. my mother's making me marry mary mac. will i always be so merry when mary's taking care of me? will i always be so merry when i marry mary mac? download this mp3, nature watcher: out in the pasture the nature watcher watches the catcher. while the catcher watches the pitcher who pitches the balls. whether the temperature's up or whether the temperature's down, the nature watcher, the catcher and the pitcher are always around. the pitcher pitches, the catcher catches and the watcher watches. so whether the temperature's rises or whether the temperature falls the nature watcher just watches the catcher who's watching the pitcher who's watching the balls. download this mp3 by sharon johnson, wish to wish: i wish to wish the wish you wish to wish, but if you wish the wish the witch wishes, i won't wish the wish you wish to wish.download this mp3, esl games world : free esl fun games for teaching, printable board games,ppt games, card games, interactive games, hangman, jeopardy, snakes and ladders and game templates., esl kids lab: free printable worksheets for esl kids, phonics, flashcards, video lessons,games and more, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl-galaxy.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable esl worksheets, grammar & vocabulary worksheets in high pdf quality., chinese-ilab.com: learn chinese online for free, videos lessons, mp3 audio, pdf audio scripts and interactive games and quizzes for mandarin learning., english-4kids.com: resources for teaching kids,videos, worksheets, games, puzzles, and more for esl kids teachers and students., esltower.com : best free resources for teachers and students. printable and interactive esl exercises, grammar & vocabulary worksheets and quizzes for all levels., englishmedialab.com: a free online resource site for students to learn english vocabulary and grammar using videos and interactive quizzes, learn chinese online : free chinese lessons online, free mp3 downloads, learn chinese, speak chinese, spoken mandarin lessons online, esl e-books, esl kids course, ppt products, game products, math downloads, mandarin chinese, kids ebooks, video lessons, worksheets, phonics, esl tongue twisters, free audio materials, esl downloads, quizzes online, about, copyright, sitemap, internal links, external links, contact us, kids worksheets, games for kids lessons, phonics rescources, flashcards, video lessons, vocabulary quizzes, video slides, pronunciation exercises, online practice exercises, powerpoint packs, math ebooks, grammar/vocab ebooks, esl courseware downloads]