[myenglishclub, herefordshire female, birthday: november 5 my favourite saying(s) [in english!] thank you, please, subscribe to get an access., please, subscribe to get an access., you need to be a member of myenglishclub to add comments!, join myenglishclub, hi, nene! welcome to english club. my name's gabriel sowrian. i'm your fellow club member. i have created a group right here at the club to help our members improve their english pronunciation. i would like to invite you to join the group. go to the group and press the button "join us!" to join. please don't hesitate to ask us if you have any questions related to english pronunciation., this is the link: https://www.myenglishclub.com/groups/english-pronunciation , thank you. see you there!, by the way, if you are interested in solving your pronunciation problem completely in just one month, please don't hesitate to talk with me on skype. i'll tell you what you need to do. , this is my skype link: https://join.skype.com/invite/lyxcrwqzi1a1, gender, female, location, herefordshire, birthday:, november 5, status, learner of english, english level, upper-intermediate, other languages spoken, filipino, japanese, spanish, skype user?, no, favourite book, movie, song/band etc [in english!], lord of the ring, my favourite saying(s) [in english!], thank you, we want myec to be an online community where people are respectful and respected., please report any inappropriate content, spam, and threatening or harassing behavior., report this member, report an issue  |  terms of service, © 2022 myenglishclub   powered by, please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.][nene, my tweets, my discussions, my blogs, comment wall, my photos, my videos, about me, my latest activities, hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.]nene - myenglishclub[gabriel sowrian, fellow club member, group, english pronunciation, join the group, join us!, pronunciation, hello, you need to enable javascript to use myenglishclub.][, sign up, sign in, ec, myec user guide faq useful links winning page photo guidelines winning photo why was i banned?, user guide, faq, useful links, winning page, photo guidelines, winning photo, why was i banned?, blogs, discussion, videos, photos, members, groups, mypage, chat, , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , gabriel sowrian april 16, 2022 17:34 hi, nene! welcome to english club. my name's gabriel sowrian. i'm your fellow club member. i have created a group right here at the club to help our members improve their english pronunciation. i would like to invite you to join the group. go to the group and press the button "join us!" to join. please don't hesitate to ask us if you have any questions related to english pronunciation. this is the link: https://www.myenglishclub.com/groups/english-pronunciation  thank you. see you there! english pronunciation myenglishclub (myec), your page in english, gabriel sowrian april 16, 2022 17:34 by the way, if you are interested in solving your pronunciation problem completely in just one month, please don't hesitate to talk with me on skype. i'll tell you what you need to do.  this is my skype link: https://join.skype.com/invite/lyxcrwqzi1a1 join conversation skype keeps the world talking. call, message, and share whatever you want - for free.]