[podcast: play in new window | download (duration: 1:25 — 1.3mb), subscribe: apple podcasts | google podcasts | rss | more, see answers below, a brown dwarf is a type of celestial object that can’t be classified as a planet or a star. although brown dwarfs look more like planets, they form the same way stars do. a star is created when a cloud of gas and dust begins to compress. the intense force of gravity causes the star’s core to fuse atoms together, producing helium. fusion is what causes a star to shine. early in its life, a star fuses atoms of deuterium. it begins to use regular hydrogen as its core gets hotter. however, brown dwarfs never reach this stage. they stay at low temperatures and fuse deuterium until they run out. brown dwarfs produce very little light, which makes them hard to find. scientists first theorized about brown dwarfs in 1963, but didn’t observe any until 1995. , 1a 2a 3c, subscribe to englishclub podcasts, thank ❤️you❤️ for sharing it with us,, name*, email* (not published), comment*, , , δ, covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][listen&learn: brown dwarfs, pre-listening vocabulary, listening activity, gapfill exercise, comprehension questions, discussion/essay questions, transcript, answers to comprehension questions, one comment, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]listen&learn: brown dwarfs | englishclub[planet, cloud, gravity, temperatures, light, written and recorded by jaksyn peacock for englishclub, search for more listen&learn stories:, subscribe to englishclub podcasts][dwarf: a type of star that is small and faint, celestial: relating to space, classify: to sort something into a category, compress: to make something smaller and more dense, core: the centre of a planet or star, fuse: to combine things together, deuterium: a variation of hydrogen, brown dwarfs look like a. planets b. stars c. asteroids, brown dwarfs are different from stars because a. they use deuterium for fusion b. they don’t have cores c. they reach extremely high temperatures, it is difficult to find brown dwarfs because a. they don’t orbit anything b. they are smaller than most planets c. they emit very little light, scientists are always learning more about space. what do you think will be discovered in the future?, the king of love from iran says: thank ❤️you❤️ for sharing it with us,, phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]