[a great tv style game adapted for maximum fun learning in esl classrooms. these games will give your esl students more communicative practice. download these sample jeopardy games and go to the templates area to find templates for creating your own customized version of this game. don't worry! it is easy with our video tutorials., more jeopardy games here>>>, olympic jeopardy is an adaptation of the tv jeopardy betting game. but instead of money this game uses olympic medals instead. a great tv style game adapted for maximum fun learning in esl classrooms. download these sample jeopardy games and go to the templates area to find templates for creating your own customized version of this game. don't worry! it is easy with our video tutorials., more olympic jeopardy games here>>>, this game gets your students communicating almost immediately. our esl ppt taboo game is a bit like the hot seat game with taboo words that students cannot use in describing other words. challenging, communication-intensive and fun., more taboo games here>>>, , , , this game is brilliant for practicing vocabulary visually. it is also communicative as students take turns guessing what is under the colorful squares. keep removing the squares until the final picture is revealed for those who made correct guesses to rejoice. an excellent vocabulary practice for esl learners., more hidden pictures games here>>>, content on this page requires a newer version of adobe flash player., , in this category, you will find games that practice: grammar, vocabulary, reading, spelling, pronunciation and listening skills., board games and more games you can print and take to class can be found here.also you will find templates for building yours., easy categorization of the games by levels of students. browse games by levels. for convenience we have easy, medium & high levels, designed to help you bring fun to the class, our ppt games are excellent classroom games for classes with white boards and computers., templates help you to quickly build customized games and activities for your esl/efl lessons., free esl/efl online & classroom games, , esl games world is the ultimate english learning fun lab with lots of interactive exercises for teachers and students of english. this site is brought to you free of charge by the same team that brought you the esl-galaxy.com, englishmedialab.com and esltower.com. we are committed to making teachers' & students' lives a lot easier by providing useful free esl resources for teaching and learning english as a foreign or second language., we have no doubt that you will find this website a handy tool for your teaching and learning of english. some of the games include: wheel of fortune, snakes and ladders, hangman, memory games, spelling games, slot machine, word classification exercises and a host of others., if you are the type of person who prefers to have games on powerpoint or as printable handouts, we have been thinking of you. we offer board games, powerpoint games and more for the classroom and one to one teaching. they have made my lessons fun and i have no doubt yours will be fun too. added to the good news are the templates we offer that you can use to create customized games for your classroom and teaching., it is total fun and highly engaging fun lessons with these resources. games have the power or eliminating negative emotions and keeping learning total fun.with the absence of the affective filter, learning is much more effective., read the full story][jeopardy betting powerpoint (ptt) game - editable template download here!, olympic jeopardy betting powerpoint (ppt) game- editable template download here!, taboos hot seat ppt game - editable template download here!, hidden picture ppt game - editable template download here!, printables/ppt, about esl games world, directory, levels & games, commercial, site, website focus, esl for young learners, printable exercises, interactive esl quizzes]esl powerpoint ppt games - fun games on powerpoint[esl, efl, tefl, esol, games, printable games, powerpoint games, ppt games, templates, online games, classroom games, word games , word puzzles , crossword puzzles , board games, interactive games, esl activities, daves esl café, barry fun english, grammar games, spelling games , grammar games online , vocabulary games , esl kids games][home, games, levels, printable games, ppt games, tools, templates, store, plus kizphonics esl games plus, kizphonics, esl games plus, elementary revision jeopardy betting game download now!, pre-intermediate jeopardy betting game download now!, lower pre-intermediate ppt jeopardy betting review game- download now!, pre-intermediate ppt jeopardy betting review game- download now!, upper pre-intermediate ppt jeopardy betting review game- download now!, body parts ppt taboo game- download now!, jobs ppt taboo game - download now!, months of the year and festivals ppt taboo game - download now!, vegetables and fruits ppt taboo game - download now!, low pre-intermediate taboo game - a variety of vocabulary, action verbs hidden picture game - download now!, body parts hidden picture game - download now!, clothes hidden picture games - download now!, farm animals hidden pictures game - download now!, food hidden pictures game - download now!, games interactive, grammar games, vocabulary games, pronunciation, reading games, easy/beginner, medium level, high levels, classroom games, printable games, powerpoint games, esl store, kids ebooks, grammar ebooks, advertise on this site, about, copyright, sitemap, internal links, external links, learn chinese, worksheets sets, esl ppt & video slides, esl flashcards by set, phonics and phonetics, ebooks for esl kids, grammar printables, vocabulary printables, phonetic/pronunciation, grammar & vocabulary ebooks, esl grammar quizzes online, vocabulary quizzes & exercises, pronunciation quizzes, beginner quizzes, video lessons]