[, our lessons are carefully broken down into levels and units. each level has 9 to 11 units with fully developed content for students, teachers and parents. every level has a placement test to help you ascertain the level of the students. every unit has - (for learners) a video tutorial, interactive games and (for educators) ppt lessons & games, worksheets, flashcards - see samples ., 60 units - video tutorials & powerpoint, 1600 printable worksheets, , 250 interactive games & exercises, flashcards by topic, , , farm animals unit - try this free sample unit from level 2., level 1- beginner1, level 2- beginner2, level 3- elementary 1, level 4- elementary 2, level 5- pre-intermediate, level 6-intermediate,   not registered yet? signup here log-out, ,  , testimonials the kids are doing great...i have four classes of 16 kids from ages 4-12, and they are progressing great. you truly have developed a wonderful course. thanks for all your help, chris, i'm finding the lessons extremely useful.  i am really pleased.  i did not expect the support to be this available.  this is a very important aspect of using the material for me. thank you for the explanation on how to play the game.  i understand it now. mary, i am surprised and happy with your work. congratulations. it will help me a lot. i hope i can share your site with a lot of fathers. antonio, i like your exercises. they are colourful and interesting maria, how difficult would it be to change this fantastic program and adapt your lesson in a language other than english? theresa, i have been looking for this type of website for 4 years. thank you so much!!! anonymous,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , , product of kizschool.com · about us - terms copyright kisito futonge, . contact us][supplementary materials, join kiz school, ]english lessons tour for kids kizschool.com[see samples, alphabet & basic phonics- learn letters of the alphabet and words., greetings: hello! goodbye!, name: what's your name?, this, that: what's this?, colors: what color is it?, numbers: how many apples ?, age: how old are you?, fruits: what fruit do you like?, body: i have two eyes., toys: where is my teddy bear?, weather: what's the weather like?, weather: what's the weather like?, chris, mary, antonio, maria, theresa][home, lessons, tour, join now!, faq, members, placement & level test for level 1, alphabet & basic phonics- learn letters of the alphabet and words., greetings: hello! goodbye!, name: what's your name?, this, that: what's this?, colors: what color is it?, numbers: how many apples ?, age: how old are you?, fruits: what fruit do you like?, body: i have two eyes., toys: where is my teddy bear?, level 1 revision game - 53 questions to review this level, make a certificate for a student after completing this level, placement & level test for level 2, free animals: what's your favorite animal?, this, these: what are these?, family: she is my mother., actions: i can jump., school supplies: what 's in your school bag?, numbers 10 to 100: how many?, shapes, colors, sizes: what shape is this?, food: something to eat., weekdays: what do you do on monday?, weather: what's the weather like?, level 2 revision game - 50 questions to review this level, make a certificate for a student after completing this level, placement & level test for level 3, actions: what's she doing?, jobs: what do you want to be?, clothes & colors: i'm wearing a ..., prepositions: where is the dog?, pets: what pet do you like best?, months & ordinal numbers: christmas is on december 25th., transportation: how do you come to school?, vegetables: how much are the tomatoes?, time & daily routines:  what time do you usually have breakfast?, weather & clothes: it's sunny. put on your sunglasses.  , zoo animals - a giraffe has a long neck., level 3 revision game - 69 questions to review this level, make a certificate for a student after completing this level, placement & level test for level 4, sports: what sport are you good at?, festivals: what do we do at christmas?, food partitives: a slice of bread, directions: how do i get to the museum?, plants: how plants grow., school subjects: when do you have geography?, good manners: do not eat in the classroom., seasons & activities: it's hot in summer. we can go swimming., health:  you should take medicine., amusement park: i like riding on the roller-coaster., level 4 revision game - 59 questions to review this level, make a certificate for a student after completing this level, placement & level test for level 5, future: welcome to the future., hobbies & interests: i like surfing. it's exciting., describing people: what does he look like?, plans for summer: going to go, jobs: when i grow up., countries, nationality: where is he from?, animal land: we went to animal land., travel: around the world in one lesson., natural disasters:  if there is an earthquake., level 5 revision game - 58 questions to review this level, make a certificate for a student after completing this level, placement & level test for level 6, shopping: the  red dress is more expensive., champions: who is faster?, health & body: this year i am stronger., manners: where are your manners?, fire: what should we do?, stories: harry potter characters., natural world: what is the longest river?, space: the eight planets., murder mystery:  who killed  mr. handsome?, level 6 revision game - 49 questions to review this level, make a certificate for a student after completing this level, phonics pack - amazing collection of worksheets, 50 esl crosswords - clean, high quality pdf, printable puzzles - word searches, text mazes, scrambles, ppt games - hidden pictures, taboo, jeopardy, placement levels for all levels, revision games for all levels - fun and effective!, classroom interactive games, interactive games - memory games, snakes & ladders & more!, powerpoint game templates, board games & card games with templates, regular content updates, english lesson videos, games, quizzes & puzzles, worksheets, phonics materials, flashcards]