[(see also grammar activity sheets), free downloadable and printable two-page vocabulary activity sheets that encourage students to practise their english skills both alone and working with a partner. each student activity sheet comes with one page of teacher's notes giving clear directions and answers., (see also grammar activity sheets), the vocabulary of censorship, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, covid-19 vocab + quiz, tefl.net for teachers, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][vocabulary activity sheets, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]vocabulary activity sheets | esl activities | englishclub[verbs associated with travel (activity), verbs associated with travel (teacher), description, romance and relationships (activity), romance and relationships (teacher), description, verbs associated with housework (activity), verbs associated with housework (teacher), description, prefixes (activity), prefixes (teacher), description, health phrasal verbs (activity), health phrasal verbs (teacher), description, onomatopoeic verbs (activity), onomatopoeic verbs (teacher), description, driving verbs and vocabulary (activity), driving verbs and vocabulary (teacher), description, money verbs and vocabulary (activity), money verbs and vocabulary (teacher), description, common interjections (activity), common interjections (teacher), description, food phrasal verbs (activity), food phrasal verbs (teacher), description, verbs associated with clothing (activity), verbs associated with clothing (teacher), description, sleep phrasal verbs (activity), sleep phrasal verbs (teacher), description, common time expressions (activity), common time expressions (teacher), description][verbs associated with travel (activity) (intermediate) verbs associated with travel (teacher) description: whether you’re a high-maintenance traveller accustomed to nothing less than five-star luxury, a sightseeing junkie determined to cram as much culture into a short break as you possibly can, or a seasoned backpacker surfing your way around the world’s sofas at a leisurely, laid-back pace, when it comes to talking about travel plans, chances are you’re going to have to call upon the odd phrasal verb! though perhaps not every student’s favourite aspect of this popular conversation topic, one would certainly be lost without them! the exercises in this resource help to familiarize students with some of the more common verbs associated with travel, in a varied and practical way., romance and relationships (activity) (intermediate) romance and relationships (teacher) description: whether one’s single, married, head-over-heels, or otherwise, romance and relationships are topics which crop up in many a conversation. and as if the ins-and-outs of love weren’t enough to get one’s head around, what about the plethora of perplexing phrasal verbs associated with it? whilst your average student may be far from smitten with them, there are certainly a few worth knowing. the exercises in this activity sheet help students to practise these useful verbs in a practical and varied way., verbs associated with housework (activity) (intermediate) verbs associated with housework (teacher) description: tidying up the kitchen, washing the mountain of dishes growing in the sink, folding and putting away the clothes… what glorious domestic tasks await you when you get home on an evening? whilst most of us would be happy do away with these tedious jobs altogether, we certainly enjoy complaining about them, and no doubt our students do too! however, for many an english learner, mastering the plethora of verbs related to them can often prove to be the greatest chore of all! the exercises in this resource help to familiarize students with some common verbs associated with housework, offering them fun and varied practice both alone and with a partner., prefixes (activity) (intermediate) prefixes (teacher) description: inconsiderate or unconsiderate? impolite or unpolite? for such small clusters of letters, prefixes can be the source of an awful lot of confusion! and seeing as they can alter the meaning of a word so very drastically, it’s essential that one gets them right. the exercises in this resource help to familiarise students with these pesky particles, offering them fun and varied practice both alone and with a partner., health phrasal verbs (activity) (intermediate) health phrasal verbs (teacher) description: so how are you feeling today? whilst some might be happy to answer this question with a simple ‘very well, thanks’, for those of us wanting to go into any detail about the afflictions currently plaguing us (and let’s face it, many of us do), chances are we’re going to need to use the odd phrasal verb. the exercises in this resource help to familiarise students with some of the most common health phrasal verbs, offering them fun and varied practice through a series of written and spoken exercises., onomatopoeic verbs (activity) (intermediate) onomatopoeic verbs (teacher) description: so, what vexing noises prevent you from sleeping peacefully through the night? whether it’s a neighbour’s dog howling pitifully until the early hours, a mosquito buzzing incessantly round your head, or that irksome tap you’ve been meaning to fix dripping steadily without relent, when it comes to describing everyday sounds (the good ones and the bad ones), one certainly wouldn’t get very far without onomatopoeia. so, what about our poor students? whilst these words may come naturally to many of us, chances are your average english learner might find some of them a little hard to grasp. the activities in this resource allow students to practise some of the most common onomatopoeic verbs in a fun and practical manner, both alone and with a partner., driving verbs and vocabulary (activity) (intermediate) driving verbs and vocabulary (teacher) description: get into, get out of, run over, drop off... the plethora of phrasal verbs associated with the topic of car travel are confusing enough to drive any english learner round the bend! and it doesn’t end there… what about all those pesky car-related nouns? the activities in this resource allow students to practise driving verbs and vocabulary in a varied and practical way, both alone and in pairs., money verbs and vocabulary (activity) (intermediate) money verbs and vocabulary (teacher) description: whether it makes your world go round or not, money plays a part in all of our lives. and though deeming the love of money the root of all evil may seem a bit extreme, getting to grips with the confusing vocabulary associated with it can be a nightmare for your average english learner. the written and communicative activities in this resource allow students to practise some of the most pertinent yet perplexing money verbs and vocab in a varied, practical, and personalised way., common interjections (activity) (intermediate) common interjections (teacher) description: so... how many interjections do you think you’ve used so far today? probably a lot more than you’re aware of, even if the day is still relatively young! though often used quite unconsciously, interjections are a vital part of our everyday speech, as without them we would struggle to express our true feelings and emotions. the activities in this resource help to familiarise students with some of the more commonly used interjections in the english language, giving them ample opportunity to practise these weird and wonderful words, both alone and in groups., food phrasal verbs (activity) (intermediate) food phrasal verbs (teacher) description: us teachers all know that there are few better to ways to spice up classroom conversation than by turning the topic to food. and whilst our students may have a lot to say about this crème de la crème of topics, getting to grips with the phrasal verbs associated with it can be anything but a piece of cake. the written and communicative exercises in this resource allow students to practise some common food phrasal verbs in a fun and varied way., verbs associated with clothing (activity) (intermediate) verbs associated with clothing (teacher) description: though they may vary in importance from one person to the next, clothes play a part in all our lives, especially those of your average student. getting our students to talk about their clothing habits correctly, however, isn’t always plain sailing, as it’s a topic full of perplexing verbs and phrasal verbs which can easily be confused. the written and communicative activities in this resource encourage students to get their thinking caps on and practise verbs associated with clothing in a fun and practical way., sleep phrasal verbs (activity) (intermediate) sleep phrasal verbs (teacher) description: as it’s something that most of us spend approximately a third of our lives doing, sleep is a topic that we can all relate to. have you ever tried talking about your sleep habits without using phrasal verbs though? nigh impossible for your average english speaker! which is why it’s so vital that our students know how use these vexing verbs correctly. the activities in this resource help familiarise students with some of the most common sleep phrasal verbs in a fun and varied way, both alone and with a partner., common time expressions (activity) (intermediate) common time expressions (teacher) description: how many expressions with the word ‘time’ do you use on a regular basis? probably a lot more than you're aware of, as for many they are almost second nature. and whilst these expressions may seem quite straightforward and user-friendly to us, for your average english learner they can be extremely confusing! this resource enables students to practise some of the more commonly-used time expressions through a variety of written and communicative activities., ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]