[you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about time., read each sentence and choose the answer with the closest meaning to the words in italics., 1. i haven't got time now, but i promise i'll do it later on., 2. jane hardly ever calls her old friends., 3. we talk to our neighbours every now and then., 4. most people with health insurance save money in the long run., 5. they called for an ambulance and it was there in no time at all., 6. we've got enough food for the time being, but we'll need some more soon., 7. your new credit card should arrive any day now., 8. fifty years ago only rich people travelled, but these days everyone does., 9. if we leave now, we'll be there in time for the first race., 10. jules and maria met at school and they've been friends ever since., , your score is:, correct answers:, , covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][expressions quiz: time 1, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]expressions quiz: time 1 | esl quizzes | englishclub[online, print it, words in italics, later on, hardly ever, every now and then, in the long run, in no time at all, for the time being, any day now, these days, in time for, ever since][phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]