[do you want to improve your english listening skills? what about your spelling, writing, and typing skills? dictation can help in many ways. it even helps you learn new vocabulary in context., englishclub dictation exercises come in three different levels. try the short dictations first and work your way up. the directions are only there to guide you. you can listen to the dictations as many times as you need to., elementary online dictation short recordings of one or two lines, intermediate online dictation mid-length recordings of one or two sentences, advanced online dictation long recordings of one or two paragraphs, note: the easiest way to compare your answer to the transcript is to type in the text box provided (except on mobile). your typing will improve along with your listening skills. another option is to write on paper. this is a good idea if you are sharing a computer with a partner or group. teachers may also be interested in this option as a class activity., covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][online dictation, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]online dictation | englishclub[elementary online dictation, intermediate online dictation, advanced online dictation, note:][phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]