[podcast: play in new window | download (duration: 1:20 — 1.2mb), subscribe: apple podcasts | google podcasts | rss | more, see answers below, cinco de mayo is a holiday that celebrates mexico’s victory over france in the battle of puebla. the war began in 1861, after mexican president benito juarez paused debt repayments to european countries so he could support the struggling economy in his own country. france invaded mexico in response. on may 5th, 1862, mexican troops defeated french troops in puebla. their victory did not end the war, but the day came to represent strength and patriotism for the mexican people. although cinco de mayo originated in mexico, celebrations in mexican-american communities introduced the holiday to the u.s. as well. today, it is more widely celebrated in the u.s. than it is in mexico., 1c 2a 3b, subscribe to englishclub podcasts, i wish we could see the peace in our world with ❤️love to all humans❤️ regardless of nationality, religion, race & so on., thank ❤️you❤️ for sharing it with us,, name*, email* (not published), comment*, , , δ, covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][listen&learn: the history of cinco de mayo, pre-listening vocabulary, listening activity, gapfill exercise, comprehension questions, discussion/essay questions, transcript, answers to comprehension questions, one comment, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]listen&learn: the history of cinco de mayo | englishclub[holiday, president, countries, response, celebrations, written and recorded by jaksyn peacock for englishclub, search for more listen&learn stories:, subscribe to englishclub podcasts][victory: the act of winning a battle, debt: money that is owed to someone, economy: a country’s system of money, invade: to enter a country by force, troop: a group of soldiers, patriotism: love for one’s country, the battle of puebla was a battle between mexico and a. america b. england c. france, the war was caused by a dispute about a. debt repayments b. borders c. political systems, mexico’s victory in puebla a. ended the war with france b. became a representation of strength and patriotism c. gained the interest of the american military, cinco de mayo has become a very popular holiday in the u.s., but many people who celebrate it do not know the history. why do you think this is?, the king of love from iran says: i wish we could see the peace in our world with ❤️love to all humans❤️ regardless of nationality, religion, race & so on. thank ❤️you❤️ for sharing it with us,, phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]