[demar derozan speaks as the chicago bulls discuss the end of their season, april 28, 2022, at the advocate center following their playoff loss to the milwaukee bucks. (brian cassella / chicago tribune), the chicago bulls ended the 2021-22 season on a frustrating note when the milwaukee bucks eliminated them from the first round of the playoffs in five games., next up is a critical period of recruitment and roster management for executive vice president artūras karnišovas and the rest of the front office as the bulls aim to build on their first postseason berth in five seasons., here are the key dates and topics to track for the bulls offseason., nba draft, auburn's walker kessler blocks a shot by jacksonville state guard darian adams in the first round of the ncaa tournament on march 18, 2022, in greenville, s.c. (chris carlson/ap), the bulls went to a tiebreaker after finishing with an identical 46-36 record to the minnesota timberwolves. after winning the draw, the bulls hold the 18th pick in the draft. that’s their only pick this year., the end of the season exposed two major areas of needed improvement: size and shooting. those aren’t issues the bulls can rectify through the draft alone, but the front office likely will address one of those weaknesses as it makes another addition to the young core., [ [don't miss] illinois center kofi cockburn says he’s declaring for the nba draft: ‘it’s time for me to take that next step’ ], last year’s draft paid off immediately for the bulls, who selected ayo dosunmu in the second round and elevated the homegrown guard into an unexpected starting role for much of the season., the bulls could be in position to add another illinois alumnus after center kofi cockburn declared for the draft, although there might be better fits for the frontcourt — such as auburn’s walker kessler — available with the 18th pick., free agency, bulls guard zach lavine and forward demar derozan head to their locker room after playing the bucks at the united center on april 24, 2022. the bucks won 119-95 to take a 3-1 lead in their playoff series. (terrence antonio james / chicago tribune), this is an important free agency period for the bulls. although the front office isn’t likely to take as big of a swing as it did last year — picking up demar derozan, lonzo ball and alex caruso — shoring up the margins of the roster will be a key to getting past the first round next season., the bulls bench finished as one of the worst in the league this season, providing only 20.6 points per game, and that lack of support became an insurmountable weakness in the playoffs. creating a more balanced bench will be crucial for the bulls this summer., [ [don't miss] column: zach lavine deserves his big payday — whether it’s with the bulls or somewhere else ], meanwhile, zach lavine will spend the summer poring over offers in his first offseason as an unrestricted free agent. lavine made clear his intention to weigh all possibilities before signing a new deal. if he departs chicago after five seasons, he would leave a gaping hole in the bulls roster., nba summer league][what will happen in free agency? who will play in summer league? what to watch for this chicago bulls offseason., important dates, what to watch for this summer, chicago tribune sports]what will happen in free agency? who will play in summer league? what to watch for this chicago bulls offseason. – chicago tribune[][may 16-22: nba draft combine, chicago, may 17: nba draft lottery, chicago, june 13: nba draft early entry withdrawal deadline, june 19: last possible date for the nba finals, june 23: nba draft, barclays center, new york, june 29: last day for teams to make contract decisions and qualifying offers to free agents, june 30: free agency negotiations begin, july 1: moratorium begins; teams can sign players to rookie, minimum and two-way contracts, july 7: moratorium ends; teams can begin making trades and signing players, july 7-17: nba summer league, las vegas, july 13: last day to withdraw qualifying offers to free agents, aug. 31: last day to waive players]