[you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about money., read each sentence and choose the answer with the closest meaning to the words in italics., 1. we pay through the nose for fresh fruit and vegetables these days., 2. in my country, the bride's family foots the bill for her wedding., 3. what's the going rate for renting a car in tokyo?, 4. if her first few weeks of trading shares, juanita made a killing., 5. is it possible to make ends meet on the minimum wage?, 6. before signing a contract, find out if your investment partner has deep pockets., 7. have you ever had to tighten your belt?, 8. i knew my earnings as a waitress would not go far., 9. getting a government pension doesn't mean an old person is on easy street., 10. we pay good money for our kids' private english lessons., , your score is:, correct answers:, , covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][expressions quiz: money, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]expressions quiz: money | esl quizzes | englishclub[online, print it, words in italics, pay through the nose, foots the bill, the going rate, made a killing, make ends meet, has deep pockets, tighten your belt, not go far, on easy street, pay good money][phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]