[cubs third baseman jonathan villar misses a foul ball by dodgers left fielder chris taylor during the eighth inning on may 8, 2022, at wrigley field. (armando l. sanchez / chicago tribune), walker buehler marked his 100th career start with his usual performance., cool. calm. efficient., buehler pitched seven sparkling innings and the los angeles dodgers beat the sliding chicago cubs 7-1 on sunday night for their sixth consecutive victory., “tonight was all about walker,” manager dave roberts said., sure was., buehler (4-1), a two-time all-star who made his big-league debut in 2017, improved to 3-0 with a 0.43 era over his last three outings. the right-hander allowed one run and four hits, struck out six and walked two., “typical walker,” teammate gavin lux said., dodgers starting pitcher walker buehler delivers during the third inning against the cubs on sunday, may 8, 2022, at wrigley field. (armando l. sanchez / chicago tribune), the 27-year-old buehler has permitted two runs or fewer in five of his six starts this season. his first career win against the cubs was his 15th start of at least seven innings since the beginning of the 2021 season, third-most in the majors during that span., he has come a long way since he tossed five scoreless innings in a no-decision against the miami marlins in his first major-league start on april 23, 2018., “i think i just pitch a little bit now,” buehler said. “back then i tried to pick my leg up and throw it by everyone. trying to mature a little bit that way maybe.”, cody bellinger had three hits for the dodgers and justin turner and freddie freeman each contributed a sacrifice fly. mookie betts went 2 for 5 while extending his hitting streak to a team-high nine games., [ [don't miss] column: it might be ‘tough to watch’ at times, but seiya suzuki and the cubs are trying to stay patient ], the cubs lost for the 14th time in 17 games. they had only three runs and 15 hits in the three-game sweep., “we played a couple teams lately that feels like we’re chasing that kind of championship-caliber baseball,” manager david ross said. “we’ll get there.”, the cubs had to shuffle their rotation after marcus stroman was scratched, and then they lost justin steele to a left hand injury., stroman was placed on the injured list without a designation, likely meaning the right-hander was shelved by a covid-19-related issue., [ [don't miss] how do 10 ex-cubs stack up after 1 month of 2022? here’s a ranking, with anthony rizzo leading the way. ], steele (1-4) stepped in, making his first appearance since april 30. but he departed before the fifth inning, sidelined by left thumb soreness., “gripping the slider, when i was pushing down on the bottom of the ball, it was just sore on the top of my thumb and then it wasn’t getting better,” steele said. “i was trying to stretch it out in between innings.”, the dodgers jumped all over michael rucker after steele trudged into the dugout. with the bases loaded and none out in the fifth, lux scored on trea turner’s double-play ball for a 3-1 lead. then betts scampered home on a wild pitch., dodgers right fielder mookie betts scores on a wild pitch by cubs reliever michael rucker during the fifth inning sunday, may 8, 2022, at wrigley field. (armando l. sanchez / chicago tribune), freeman’s sacrifice fly made it 5-1 in the seventh, and the nl west leaders tacked on two more runs in the ninth — helped by shortstop nico hoerner’s error., dodgers: manager dave roberts said lhp victor gonzález (elbow) will have arthroscopic surgery wednesday. roberts said it is a scope and the team hopes gonzález will be able to return this season. ... rhp blake treinen (right shoulder inflammation) was slated for an mri on monday, but roberts said he doesn’t think treinen will see the doctor now. the plan is to try rehab, roberts said, with the hope of getting the reliever back after the all-star break. ... lhp andrew heaney (shoulder inflammation) plans to play catch monday. “he’s doing great,” roberts said. “he’s in a good frame of mind.”, cubs: 3b patrick wisdom was out of the starting lineup, but manager david ross said wisdom was feeling better. he left the second game of saturday’s doubleheader because of a bruised left ankle., dodgers: lhp julio urías (2-1, 1.88 era) gets the ball monday night in pittsburgh. lhp josé quintana (0-1, 3.38) starts for the pirates., cubs: rhp kyle hendricks (1-3, 5.64 era) starts monday night in san diego in the opener of a six-game trip. lhp mackenzie gore (2-0, 1.71) takes the mound for the padres., copyright © 2021, chicago tribune, copyright © 2021, chicago tribune][chicago cubs lose 7-1 to get swept by the los angeles dodgers, their 14th loss in 17 games, chicago tribune sports, trainer’s room, up next, lincolnwood police: toyota highlander stolen, talk of the county reader opinion: pelosi should ‘stay home, take care of business here and not go overseas, particularly to ukraine’, talk of the county reader opinion: ‘how in god’s name can five people ... overturn something that’s been settled law for over 50 years?’]chicago cubs lose 7-1 to get swept by the los angeles dodgers, their 14th loss in 17 games – chicago tribune[][]