[podcast: play in new window | download (duration: 1:17 — 1.2mb), subscribe: apple podcasts | google podcasts | rss | more, see answers below, serena williams is an american tennis player. she was born in 1981 in saginaw, michigan. serena’s father, richard williams, trained both her and her sister venus to play, beginning their lessons when they were only 3 years old. at age 14, serena williams began to play tennis professionally. she won the u.s. open tournament four years later. in 2000, williams teamed up with her sister for the olympic games, and the two won their first gold medals in the doubles category. they later played against each other in the finals of three major tournaments in 2002. serena came out the victor in all three. that year, she became the highest ranking women’s tennis player in the world. throughout her career, williams has won 23 major singles titles and 16 major doubles titles., 1c 2c 3b, subscribe to englishclub podcasts, thanks for your histories.they are always interesting for me., thank ❤️ you ❤️ for sharing it with us,, rất hay và thú vị, name*, email* (not published), comment*, , , δ, covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][listen&learn: serena williams, pre-listening vocabulary, listening activity, gapfill exercise, comprehension questions, discussion/essay questions, transcript, answers to comprehension questions, 3 comments, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]listen&learn: serena williams | englishclub[tennis, , lessons, teamed, finals, career, written and recorded by jaksyn peacock for englishclub, search for more listen&learn stories:, subscribe to englishclub podcasts][train: to teach someone how to do something, professional: done as a career, tournament: an event where athletes compete against each other, doubles: a category of tennis that is played with two teams of two, victor: the winner of something, rank: to organize people by their accomplishments, williams was trained by a. her sister b. her brother c. her father, in 2000, serena and venus a. began playing professionally b. played against each other in the finals of a tournament c. won their first olympic gold medals, after winning against her sister in 2002, williams a. took a break from tournaments b. became the highest ranking women’s tennis player c. decided to focus on doubles instead of singles, do you enjoy watching sports? why or why not?, the main purpose of many sports is competition. why is competition important? are there downsides to being competitive?, david says: thanks for your histories.they are always interesting for me., the king of love from iran says: thank ❤️ you ❤️ for sharing it with us,, vũ thị hoài thu says: rất hay và thú vị, phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]