[you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about food., read each sentence and choose the answer with the closest meaning to the words in italics., 1. my sister has a sweet tooth., 2. johnny would always grab a bite on his way to school., 3. maria was being eaten alive by mosquitoes., 4. they were poor kids, so they'd eat us out of house and home whenever they came by., 5. when i was young i ate like a horse and i never got fat., 6. when i was young i ate like a bird and i never got fat., 7. our friends from france have a weakness for rich desserts., 8. after he stopped coughing, marcus said, "oh my god! a peanut went down the wrong way.", 9. every night dad would say, "eat your vegetables, kids. they're good for you.", 10. i'm worried about grandma. the nurse says she is off her food again., , your score is:, correct answers:, , covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][expressions quiz: food, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]expressions quiz: food | esl quizzes | englishclub[online, print it, words in italics, has a sweet tooth, grab a bite, eaten alive, eat us out of house and home, ate like a horse, ate like a bird, have a weakness for, went down the wrong way., good for you, is off her food][phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]