[you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about location., read each sentence and choose the answer with the closest meaning to the words in italics., 1. the kids are playing with their friends next door., 2. the school is a stone's throw from our apartment., 3. the bank is right across from the police station., 4. the beach is ten miles from town as the crow flies, and twenty miles by road., 5. if you rent our house, bangkok's biggest market will be on your doorstep., 6. if it's off the beaten track, would you still want to go there?, 7. they're staying in a cabin in the middle of nowhere., 8. you can find interesting places in every corner of the city., 9. the house is located on a one-way street., 10. you don't want a shop in a dead-end street, do you?, , your score is:, correct answers:, , covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][expressions quiz: location, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]expressions quiz: location | esl quizzes | englishclub[online, print it, words in italics, next door, a stone's throw from, right across from, as the crow flies, on your doorstep, it's off the beaten track, in the middle of nowhere, in every corner, one-way street, dead-end street][phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]