[photos: chicago bears hold rookie minicamp at halas hall, got something to say? connect with the tribune on facebook., connect, tribune publishing, company info, copyright © 2022, chicago tribune][chicago cubs, , chicago cubs lose 7-1 to get swept by the los angeles dodgers, their 14th loss in 17 games, column: it might be ‘tough to watch’ at times, but seiya suzuki and the chicago cubs are trying to stay patient, ronald acuna jr.’s missing shoe, jose altuve’s unfortunate foul: mlb broadcasts’ hilarious moments of the week, chicago cubs continue to show they’re not ready for prime time in a doubleheader sweep by the los angeles dodgers, column: ‘winning time’ was great junk food tv. now how about a series on the 2004 chicago cubs?, how do 10 ex-chicago cubs stack up after 1 month of 2022? here’s a ranking, with anthony rizzo leading the way., marquee announces a multiyear tv partnership with the chicago sky, who also have some games on the u this season, friday’s chicago cubs series opener against the los angeles dodgers is postponed to saturday because of rain, sign up for the chicago tribune sports newsletter, photos see more photos articles, cubs photo galleries, meet the exclusive club of big-league pitchers likely forever stuck on one career home run, mike napoli is perfecting his coaching chops with the chicago cubs — and playing some cribbage in the process, column: things we saw and heard at the city series, including ‘angry lucas’ giolito and a pink floyd reference, aj pollock’s bloop single gives the white sox a 4-3 win over the cubs to sweep the city series at wrigley field, should the chicago cubs be concerned with seiya suzuki’s slump? ‘he’s got to go through the ebbs and flows.’, the ‘sodfather’ confirms the obvious: this chicago spring — with its ‘brutal’ weather pattern— has been the worst, ‘it was unrelenting’: chicago white sox pitchers shut down the cubs 3-1 in frigid conditions in the city series opener, most read in sports, editor's picks, column: cubs and white sox players — and fans — weather miserable conditions for the city series opener at wrigley field, a banged-up willson contreras is day to day for the cubs, while shoulder inflammation sidelines reliever ethan roberts, column: it’s hard to get too excited for the return of the city series during a gloomy chicago spring, david robertson has been lights out for the chicago cubs after coming back from a potentially career-ending injury, kelsie whitmore becomes the 1st woman to start an atlantic league baseball game, column: marcus stroman outduels corbin burnes to earn his 1st chicago cubs victory in style, the viral clip from the mets-cardinals brawl, a lizard, some spilled drinks and more: mlb broadcasts’ hilarious moments of the week, latest in sports, 3 takeaways from the chicago cubs’ 9-1 loss to the milwaukee brewers, including a lot of swings-and-misses, column: chicago cubs need to get their rotation back on track after april’s struggles — including back-to-back blowout defeats, column: is the chicago cubs offense for real or is it too small of a sample size to judge?, mlb suspends trevor bauer for 2 full seasons without pay for violating the league’s domestic violence and sexual assault policy, willson contreras shares emotional moment with his younger brother william, an atlanta braves catcher: ‘no one knows how hard the road is’, chicago blackhawks gm kyle davidson taps jeff greenberg, a cubs executive, for a key front-office role, willson contreras’ bigger chicago cubs leadership role is fueled by years of listening — and putting in work, chicago tribune articles group 3]chicago cubs news, scores, roster, schedule & rumors - chicago tribune[][enewspaper, obituaries, alerts, what to buy, subscribers, advertising, what channel is the cubs game on, wrigley field guide, get to know seiya suzuki, follow our writer on twitter, sign up for cubs alerts, chicago cubs chicago cubs lose 7-1 to get swept by the los angeles dodgers, their 14th loss in 17 games the chicago cubs lost for the 14th time in 17 games. they had only three runs and 15 hits in the three-game sweep. by jay cohen may 8, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs column: it might be ‘tough to watch’ at times, but seiya suzuki and the chicago cubs are trying to stay patient there’s no doubt it will be “tough to watch” the chicago cubs at times, as willson contreras said. but seeing how manager david ross and his team get past this stretch will be interesting to observe. by paul sullivan may 8, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports ronald acuna jr.’s missing shoe, jose altuve’s unfortunate foul: mlb broadcasts’ hilarious moments of the week mlb’s broadcasts aren’t just play by play and commentary of the action on the field. by sarah valenzuela may 8, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs chicago cubs continue to show they’re not ready for prime time in a doubleheader sweep by the los angeles dodgers if the chicago cubs don't start winning, they might be shut out soon from espn's "sunday night baseball." by paul sullivan may 7, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports column: ‘winning time’ was great junk food tv. now how about a series on the 2004 chicago cubs? "winning time," the hbo series on the start of the los angeles lakers dynasty, was fun to watch even as it stretched the facts. by paul sullivan may 7, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs how do 10 ex-chicago cubs stack up after 1 month of 2022? here’s a ranking, with anthony rizzo leading the way. the chicago cubs have floundered in the opening month of the 2022 season. here's how some ex-cubs have fared in the early going. by paul sullivan may 6, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago sky marquee announces a multiyear tv partnership with the chicago sky, who also have some games on the u this season marquee sports network is expanding the scope of its coverage beyond the chicago cubs. by meghan montemurro may 6, 2022, chicago sky, chicago cubs friday’s chicago cubs series opener against the los angeles dodgers is postponed to saturday because of rain a rainy forecast again has affected the chicago cubs home schedule. by meghan montemurro may 6, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago bears photos: chicago bears hold rookie minicamp at halas hall photos from the first day of chicago bears rookie minicamp at halas hall in lake forest on friday, may 6, 2022. by josé m. osorio may 6, 2022, chicago bears, los angeles sparks 98, chicago sky 91 (ot), photos: chicago sky media day, city series photos: white sox 4, cubs 3, photos: white sox 3, cubs 1, photos: pirates 4, cubs 3, photos: pirates 4, cubs 3, photos: rays 8, cubs 2 (6), photos: rays 6, cubs 5, photos: cubs 4, rays 2, photos: brewers 5, cubs 4, photos: new chicago cubs outfielder seiya suzuki, the best photos from opening day at wrigley field, breaking sports meet the exclusive club of big-league pitchers likely forever stuck on one career home run on oct. 3, 2021, giants’ pitcher logan webb tucked a home run just inside the left field pole at san francisco’s oracle park. by matthew roberson may 6, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs mike napoli is perfecting his coaching chops with the chicago cubs — and playing some cribbage in the process chicago cubs first base coach mike napoli continues to learn in a new role with the goal of becoming a big-league manager. by meghan montemurro may 6, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports column: things we saw and heard at the city series, including ‘angry lucas’ giolito and a pink floyd reference things we saw and heard at game 2 of the city series between the cubs and white sox. by paul sullivan may 5, 2022, breaking sports, breaking sports aj pollock’s bloop single gives the white sox a 4-3 win over the cubs to sweep the city series at wrigley field the white sox bullpen came through against the cubs in a 4-3 victory at wrigley field to win both city series games on the north side. by meghan montemurro may 4, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs should the chicago cubs be concerned with seiya suzuki’s slump? ‘he’s got to go through the ebbs and flows.’ right fielder seiya suzuki has been in a slump the last two weeks, but the chicago cubs are confident his patient approach will pay off. by meghan montemurro may 4, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports the ‘sodfather’ confirms the obvious: this chicago spring — with its ‘brutal’ weather pattern— has been the worst is this the worst spring ever? yes, says roger "the sodfather" bossard, the head groundskeeper for the chicago white sox. by paul sullivan may 4, 2022, breaking sports, breaking sports ‘it was unrelenting’: chicago white sox pitchers shut down the cubs 3-1 in frigid conditions in the city series opener rarely was the play entertaining in the white sox's grind-it-out 3-1 win against the cubs and their struggling offense. by meghan montemurro may 3, 2022, breaking sports, michael jordan marries longtime girlfriend apr 27, what will happen in free agency? who will play in summer league? what to watch for this chicago bulls offseason. 5h, 3 things we heard from chicago bears offensive coordinator luke getsy, including his ‘tremendous’ dynamic with justin fields may 8, how did 81-1 long shot rich strike win the kentucky derby? may 8, the arlington heights bears? here’s what to know about the team’s possible move from chicago’s soldier field. apr 4, how do 10 ex-chicago cubs stack up after 1 month of 2022? here’s a ranking, with anthony rizzo leading the way., meet the chicago bears’ 11 picks from the 2022 nfl draft, from cornerback kyler gordon to punter trenton gill, jairo torres ticks the boxes for the chicago fire on and off the pitch. and at 21, he’s ready for a big role., illinois basketball is retooling after key departures but has the no. 9 recruiting class — including skyy clark — incoming, chicago red stars look to reset — and prioritize a ‘positive’ culture — after abuse scandals rocked the nwsl last season, the arlington heights bears? here’s what to know about the team’s possible move from chicago’s soldier field., here are all the ways to get updates on your favorite teams from chicago tribune sports writers, breaking sports column: cubs and white sox players — and fans — weather miserable conditions for the city series opener at wrigley field it was a raw night for baseball on the north side, but the chicago cubs and white sox went at it anyway in the opener of the city series. by paul sullivan may 3, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs a banged-up willson contreras is day to day for the cubs, while shoulder inflammation sidelines reliever ethan roberts willson contreras was not in the chicago cubs lineup tuesday against the white sox. he is banged up but it’s “nothing serious,” manager david ross said. by meghan montemurro may 3, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports column: it’s hard to get too excited for the return of the city series during a gloomy chicago spring the city series begins anew tuesday at wrigley field. but horrible weather and bad baseball by both the cubs and white sox has dampened enthusiasm. by paul sullivan may 3, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs david robertson has been lights out for the chicago cubs after coming back from a potentially career-ending injury chicago cubs reliever david robertson has dominated in high-leverage spots after an up-and-down recovery from tommy john surgery. by meghan montemurro may 2, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports kelsie whitmore becomes the 1st woman to start an atlantic league baseball game kelsie whitmore played left field sunday for the staten island ferryhawks, becoming the first woman to start an atlantic league game. by associated press staff may 1, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs column: marcus stroman outduels corbin burnes to earn his 1st chicago cubs victory in style the chicago cubs definitely needed a stopper after allowing a combined 20 runs the previous 2 nights. marcus stroman was a stopper’s stopper. by paul sullivan may 1, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports the viral clip from the mets-cardinals brawl, a lizard, some spilled drinks and more: mlb broadcasts’ hilarious moments of the week mlb’s broadcasts aren’t just play by play and commentary of the action on the field. by sarah valenzuela may 1, 2022, breaking sports, from college sports to high schools: nil deals for prep athletes now allowed in 7 states 2h, chicago blackhawks q&a: what is gm kyle davidson’s plan for the rebuild? what will they do at goalie? 5h, what will happen in free agency? who will play in summer league? what to watch for this chicago bulls offseason. 5h, chicago cubs lose 7-1 to get swept by the los angeles dodgers, their 14th loss in 17 games may 8, column: it might be ‘tough to watch’ at times, but seiya suzuki and the chicago cubs are trying to stay patient may 8, chicago cubs 3 takeaways from the chicago cubs’ 9-1 loss to the milwaukee brewers, including a lot of swings-and-misses the chicago cubs lost for the ninth time in 11 games and have been outscored 20-2 by the milwaukee brewers in two games. by paul sullivan apr 30, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs column: chicago cubs need to get their rotation back on track after april’s struggles — including back-to-back blowout defeats the chicago cubs rotation has struggled in april, and justin steele was the latest to not get in sync saturday night in milwaukee. by paul sullivan apr 30, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs column: is the chicago cubs offense for real or is it too small of a sample size to judge? the chicago cubs set out to produce a lineup that made more contact after the swing-and-miss era following the 2016 world series title. by paul sullivan apr 29, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports mlb suspends trevor bauer for 2 full seasons without pay for violating the league’s domestic violence and sexual assault policy los angeles dodgers pitcher trevor bauer was suspended for two full seasons without pay by major league baseball for violating the league’s domestic violence and sexual assault policy, which he denies. apr 29, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs willson contreras shares emotional moment with his younger brother william, an atlanta braves catcher: ‘no one knows how hard the road is’ chicago cubs catcher willson contreras shared an emotional moment with his younger brother and atlanta braves catcher william contreras. by meghan montemurro apr 29, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago blackhawks chicago blackhawks gm kyle davidson taps jeff greenberg, a cubs executive, for a key front-office role jeff greenberg helped the chicago cubs build the 2016 world series champions, now he’s tasked with revolutionizing the blackhawks. by phil thompson apr 28, 2022, chicago blackhawks, chicago cubs willson contreras’ bigger chicago cubs leadership role is fueled by years of listening — and putting in work chicago cubs catcher willson contreras has stepped up into a bigger leadership role: “it’s his time. ... he doesn’t take that lightly.” by meghan montemurro apr 28, 2022, chicago cubs, commemorate history with the chicago tribune birthday book! -shop now, challenge yourself with online puzzles & games. play now, get 20% off the 'ask amy' 2nd edition book -shop now, no-nonsense advice for better living delivered to your inbox every morning. explore now, , , , , new york daily news, orlando sentinel, the morning call of pa., daily press of va., the daily meal, the baltimore sun, sun sentinel of fla., hartford courant, the virginian-pilot, studio 1847, careers, help center, terms of service, contact us, manage web notifications, media kit, about us, privacy policy, archives, local print ads, chicago tribune store, do not sell my personal information]