[, generic cialis online (tadalafil) is a relatively novel drug. it was launched by cipla, which is an indian pharmaceutical product maker. the preparation is made on base of the ready-made formula of online cialis. it is an exact analogue of this famous world brand. the quality of the product is so high that it is not inferior to cialis neither in terms of its efficiency nor in its safety. since this subject is an analog, the cost is much lower than the cost of the original., this medicament is designed to treat any male erectile dysfunction of organic or psychological nature. the preparation successfully combats the signs of sexual dysfunction, facilitating long-lasting and robust erection. the medicine helps also in neglected cases. the described item improves potency, but it is not intended to prolong a sexual intercourse. this product effectively relaxes and dilates pulmonary blood vessels, which facilitates blood flow., reduction of pulmonary arterial improves the cardiac function, which significantly increases heart activity and capacity. the main indications for cialis generic treatment are:, generic cialis online – tadalafil is also applied to normalize blood circulation in the pelvic organs., this remedy is available in the form of tablets. each tablet contains 20 mg of tadalafil online. cialis pills are yellow with bitter taste. one blister contains 5 tablets, which should be stored at a temperature of up to 25 c in a cool, dry place., buying the drug check carefully the integrity of the package and the expiration date. the period of shelf life makes 2 years., the only active component of the composition is tadalafil generic. it is a synthetic substance that pushes blood towards the penis, dilates blood vessels and cavernous bodies. this ensures strong erection when a man is stimulated sexually. the preparation is effective only when he is exposed to a sexual arousal. therefore, accidental erection is impossible. it is there only when a person is ready and nothing happens otherwise., the effect lasts 32 hours. no other drug gives equally lasting effect. one can swallow it on a saturday morning and use it until sunday evening. an erection occurs about 40 minutes after ingestion., there is no addiction observed or change of the endocrine profile. so it is recognized as a safe and healthy way to treat any sexual dysfunction., the drug should be taken at least one hour before expected sex. cialis pill is taken orally with water or other drink. don’t take the drug with alcohol. the maximum permissible aggregate dose per day is 20 mg of active ingredient tadalafil. first time use 1⁄2 tablet (10 mg of active component)., if the medicament is taken regularly sexual intercourse can happen at any time between doses. the scheme to be selected depends on the individual characteristics of the patient and is determined by a physician., if used to treat pulmonary hypertension tablets are taken orally as directed by a doctor, during meals or between them, usually once a day. doses are regulated individually, based on the existing conditions and individual characteristics of the patient. it is advisable to apply the medicine at the same time every day. the drug does not affect the sperm motility, the composition of sperm and the ability of a man to conceive a child. it is necessary to use a latex condom for safe sex. the drug should be used only after a careful study of the instructions and consultation with a gp., generic cialis is an otc commodity. lab tests show high safety of the drug. medicine does not cause major changes in the organism of a healthy person. side effects are possible but usually they are mildly expressed and disappear without any special treatment applied., the drug can not be used with drugs containing nitrates which reduce blood pressure. never take the drug if in the past 3 months you have suffered a stroke or myocardial infarction, if you suffer from leukemia, peyronie’s disease, multiple myeloma., aortic valve stenosis is not an absolute contraindication, but in this case use the drug with caution (because of blood pressure drop)., the medication is strictly prohibited to persons under 18 years. older men tolerate it well., it is strictly forbidden to use these tablets simultaneously with nitro compounds, nicorandil and alpha-blockers. this can lead to a sharp drop in blood pressure and create a life threat. it is not recommended to combine this medicine with antibiotics, antiviral drugs. the time interval between taking cialis 20mg and these drugs should be at least 72 hours., do not take cialis tablet with grapefruit juice. this can lead to an overdose of the active substance., active substance tadalafil inhibits the activity of the enzyme phosphodiesterase (pde-5). this enzyme blocks and contracts arteries. therefore, its suppression leads to the rush of blood into the pelvic organs and the penis. generic tadalafil is superior to sildenafil (viagra) and vardenafil (levitra), having stronger effect. in addition, tadalafil citrate acts solely on the vessels of the penis, prostate and pelvic organs. it is not an aphrodisiac and does not stimulate sexual desire., during the study human subjects took 500 mg of tadalafil per day. it turned out that the side effects were exactly the same as when taking the drug at a dosage of 40 mg. if you consume a large dose (over 100 mg) you need symptomatic therapy (seek medical aid)., getting rid of erectile dysfunction implies a regular treatment course to be taken. its terms are determined by the doctor. the doctor also prescribes the dosage. most often the treatment course takes 30 days. the daily dosage of the drug usually does not exceed 20 mg. however, the timing of the course of treatment can be reduced or increased by a doctor’s decision., you have to seek advice of your doctor before using tablets. if a man decides to use cheap cialis online (tadalafil) on his own he needs to know that it can not be taken continuously for more than 1 month. after taking it 30 days in a row you should take a break for 1 month., i have been taking this thing for three weeks. i drive and walk. i have no headaches but i’m hard in the morning! and during the day, if a girl touches him i immediately have a reaction.,  ,  , i started to take a course of cialis 5mg. i decided to take 12 every other day. everything is working out fine. one week has passed. the most interesting thing is that i did not feel any side effects. i thought that it is placebo tablets but as soon as sex starts i have an instant erection. it continues until i come. the process is usually long, we play for 30-40 minutes and up to an hour.,  , i used viagra for a long time and thought that this is the best way to increase potency. but that was until i checked this one. now i have completely switched to it. i am very glad. side effects have not been observed.,  ,  , generic cialis pills helped me to solve the problem which lasts since adolescence. sex lasted 2-3 minutes and it happened that even a minute was too long. now i have a constant partner, and not to upset her and not lose, i decided to buy cialis without a doctor prescription. the result is excellent. i take 1 tablet and use some self-control, so half-hour sex is guaranteed.,  , my husband (47 years old) was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. our doctor recommended the drug generic cialis 20mg to restore sexual function. we were pleasantly surprised by the effect of the pill. we recommend this drug to all men and women who are concerned with the condition of their beloved one. the main advantage of this drug over the more famous viagra is the possibility to combine it with alcohol. but it is completely inferior in terms of its effect.,  , this drug is fast. i take it 30 minutes before intimacy. the erection comes quickly. this drug is the most effective of all that i ever had to try. i’m over 45 years old and problems in the sexual sphere started not so long ago. i really hope that this is temporary.,  ,  , cialis vs viagra: it’s much better than viagra, but both cause heartburn. this is my only complaint. the desired effect lasted from 3 to 5 days.][what is cialis? (description & composition), drug form and storage, action, cialis dosing and administration, the daily dose can be gradually increased up to 2 times. one can use two schemes of the drug intake:, contraindications and side effects of cialis, generic cialis side effects:, as a rule, a healthy man tolerate the drug well. it is not advised to use this medicine in the presence of the diseases below:, age restrictions, compatibility, how does cialis work?, o.d. risk, how long does it take for cialis to work?, generic cialis reviews, please, see below some feedback from the users:, kamagra oral jelly, tadacip, kamagra]tadalafil - generic cialis 20mg by dadha company: uses, dosage, side effects.[][home, generic drugs, faq, reviews, how to take cialis?, contact us, home, generic drugs, faq, reviews, how to take cialis?, contact us, male sexual dysfunction;, prostatic hyperplasia;, pulmonary hypertension., taking the medication only in case it is needed, at least 30-40 minutes before sex;, taking the medication on a regular basis every day., short-term headache;, slightly nauseous;, slight numbness of the limbs;, light heart beat disorder;, redness on the face;, nasal congestion (swelling of the mucous membrane);, minor decrease in visual acuity;, minor pain in the muscles and back., presence of allergic reactions to tadalafil 20mg, serious pathologies of the cardiovascular system (cad with angor pectoris during intercourse, serious insufficiency of the heart, severe arterial hyper- or hypotension, life-threatening heart rhythm disorders, myocardial infarction or cerebral stroke);, nasty forms of liver failure;, serious kidney disease;, deformations of the penis;, fibrosis of the penis;, very high or very low pressure;, high eye pressure;, propensity to develop a long painful erection (priapism);, gastrointestinal ulcers;, blood coagulation disorder;, sickle-cell anemia., aurogra, fildena, malegra, suhagra, vidalista, stendra, apcalis, flomax, nizagara, priligy, silagra, levitra, kamagra oral jelly, how to know if you have asthma?, is kamagra illegal to possess?, how do i know if i have anxiety?, kamagra, tadacip, generic clomid, climacteric period, antifungal medicines, antiviral drugs, health23, men's health23, human diseases21, beauty19, women's health9, drug administration routes6, questions & answers3, antibiotics2]