[take your kids to the kids lab and teach them english using interactive videos and interactive quizzes. video vocabulary lessons include : clothes, toys, zoo animals, birthday & numbers, farm animals,transportation, weather,vegetables, colors, etc. our video files are in flash and windows flv formats, making them easy to use on most computers., , watch more videos, tips: when you teach with these videos you can control the speed of learning by using the pause, play and volume buttons. listening and pronunciation can also be taught through this means., course videos 1 , course videos 2 , course videos 3, in this section you will find video lessons and self-grading quizzes put according to topics and the developmental stages of the students. the online videos make for an excellent online classroom where students can study with minimal guidance. the video lesson slides are so well-designed, little or no explaining is needed. it is collection of many years of teaching in various classrooms across the globe., course 1 - lessons - alphabet, greetings, colours, ages, numbers 1 to 10, fruits and more>>>, course 2 - lessons - animals, food, family, shapes, school bag, weather, toys, days and more>>>, course 3 - pets, time& daily routines, transport, clothes, home, prepositions of place and more>>>, ,  , math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl kids lab's quizzes have been carefully designed to teach kids how to spell, read, write and reinforce vocabulary. we are currently working on more quizzes for phonics and phonetics. so always come back., with these interactive quizzes, vocabulary and language points learnt with the videos is further reinforced and consolidated. esl kids lab provides quizzes that will most often match the videos, providing teachers and parents an opportunity to monitor kids' progress., visit the quiz lab, these free courses are divided into course levels. the levels reflect the developmental stage of most young learners and esl beginners. these courses are taught through online videos, and self-grading quizzes. follow the links below to get to the video lesson - click on the player to begin. look, listen and learn. later turn off the volume (mute) and let students try to say what they see.][esl kids multimedia learning resources, videos for english learning:, video lessons -  look, listen and repeat, interactive esl games, esl fun interactive games teaching & learning,  , interactive vocabulary quizzes/tests, esl interactive games for children, listening memory games, extra resources, esl kids lessons - the online classroom, course outline, course 1 lessons, course 2 lessons, course 3 lessons,  , our esl websites - we endorse the contents of the following sites]english lessons for kids, multimedia interactive materials for teaching kids[course videos 1 , course videos 2 , course videos 3, - lessons - alphabet, greetings, colours, ages, numbers 1 to 10, fruits and more>>>, course 2 - lessons - animals, food, family, shapes, school bag, weather, toys, days and more>>>, course 3 - pets, time& daily routines, transport, clothes, home, prepositions of place and more>>>, math4children.com, free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons, ebooks downloads, for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., self-grading quizzes for kids and beginners, visit the quiz lab, unit  intro – alphabet & phonics resources. , unit   1 – greetings - hello, unit   2 – what’s your name?, unit   3 – how old are you?, unit   4 – numbers – how many?, unit   5 a – colours – what colour is it?, unit 5 b - colours vocabulary, unit 5 c - green monster colours lesson, unit   6 – fruits – i like apples., unit  7 – body – i have a head., unit  8–  actions  – i can, i can’t., unit  1 – animals – farms animals. , unit   2 – family members, unit  3 – school bag, unit   4 – actions – can and can’t  , unit   5 – shapes & sizes, unit   6 – demonstrative pronouns – this/that/these/those, unit   7 – numbers – 10 to 100, unit  8 – toys – where is it?, unit  9 –  days of the week and weekly activities, unit 10 -   weather – what’s the weather like?, unit 11 -   food – what do you want to eat, unit  1 – pets : why do you like dogs?, unit   2a – time – what time is it?, unit   2b – time – what time is it?, unit   3 – months & birthdays – when is your birthday?, unit   4 – jobs – what people do., unit  5  – actions – what are you doing?, unit   6 – transport – how do you come to school?, unit   7 – clothes – what are you wearing today?, unit   8 –  where is it? – at home, unit  9a – vegetables – how much are the carrots?, unit  9b – vegetables – extra vegetable vocabulary lesson - cauliflower, broccoli etc., unit  10 –  weather  and clothes  - put on your sunglasses., unit 11 -  zoo – what does a panda look like?, aim: to teach students how to describe zoo animals by what they eat and look like.][home, lessons, worksheets, fun games, tutorials, powerpoint, flashcards, extra resources main teachers parents downloads kids lab students tips shop links, main, teachers, parents, downloads, kids lab, students, tips, shop, links, phonics games & videos online - teach your child to read with phonics - phonics games online, phonics worksheets, phonics video tutorials, english lessons for children - for parents & teachers of kids - we offer video tutorials, games, worksheets, powerpoint,flashcards, placement tests - kizschool.com, kids math exercises : math practice for kids - pre-k to 8th grade., esl ebook packs for kids : resources you can't afford not to have., math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks preschool,1st to 6th grade., videos for english learning: take your kids to the kids lab and teach them english using interactive videos and interactive quizzes. video vocabulary lessons include : clothes, toys, zoo animals, birthday & numbers, farm animals,transportation, weather,vegetables, colors, etc. our video files are in flash and windows flv formats, making them easy to use on most computers. watch more videos tips: when you teach with these videos you can control the speed of learning by using the pause, play and volume buttons. listening and pronunciation can also be taught through this means. video lessons -  look, listen and repeat course videos 1 , course videos 2 , course videos 3 in this section you will find video lessons and self-grading quizzes put according to topics and the developmental stages of the students. the online videos make for an excellent online classroom where students can study with minimal guidance. the video lesson slides are so well-designed, little or no explaining is needed. it is collection of many years of teaching in various classrooms across the globe. course 1 - lessons - alphabet, greetings, colours, ages, numbers 1 to 10, fruits and more>>> course 2 - lessons - animals, food, family, shapes, school bag, weather, toys, days and more>>> course 3 - pets, time& daily routines, transport, clothes, home, prepositions of place and more>>> interactive esl games esl fun interactive games teaching & learning grammar games - jeopardy, hangman, wheel games, snakes and ladders and more>>> vocabulary games - memory games, maze games, snakes and ladders, hangman and more>>> esl online games directory - have fun teaching and learning english with your students   math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade.   interactive vocabulary quizzes/tests esl kids lab has an interactive section with several self-grading quizzes for children. this strives to make teaching a lot easier for parents, students and teachers. self-grading quizzes for kids and beginners - we have quizzes on animals, fruits, transport, toys, classroom objects, jobs, vegetables and more vocabulary quizzes for kids and beginner english learners. esl kids lab's quizzes have been carefully designed to teach kids how to spell, read, write and reinforce vocabulary. we are currently working on more quizzes for phonics and phonetics. so always come back. with these interactive quizzes, vocabulary and language points learnt with the videos is further reinforced and consolidated. esl kids lab provides quizzes that will most often match the videos, providing teachers and parents an opportunity to monitor kids' progress. visit the quiz lab esl interactive games for children listening memory games action verbs - 12 words- memory game action verbs vocabulary - memory game adjective opposites - memory game about me - self-introduction memory game amusement park - memory game birthday and age - memory game body parts memory game clothes and colours memory game colours memory game days of the week and daily activities - memory game describing people - what does he look like? - memory game directions and places - asking the way - memory game disasters game - natural disasters vocabulary - earthquake, tsunami etc. - memory game exercise and sports vocabulary - memory game farm animal vocabulary - memory game festivals vocabulary - memory game fire safety - memory game food vocabulary - memory game fruits vocabulary - memory game hobbies and activities vocabulary - memory game i want - sentences with things we want - cd, disc man, ipod, - memory game jobs - easy jobs - police officer, doctor, teacher etc. vocabulary - memory game jobs - high jobs vocabulary- architect, mechanic etc- memory game months of the year vocabulary - memory game natural world vocabulary - rivers, lakes, oceans, mountains - memory game numbers and colours vocabulary - memory game numbers 1 to 10 vocabulary - memory game numbers 10 to 20 vocabulary - memory game olympic sports vocabulary - memory game pets vocabulary - memory game pets sentences - memory game planets and solar system - memory game school supplies 1 vocabulary - memory game school supplies 2 vocabulary - memory game shapes and colours vocabulary - memory game sickness and seeing a doctor vocabulary - memory game signs and public notices sentences - memory game time and daily routines - memory game toys vocabulary 1 - memory game toys vocabulary 2 - memory game transportation vocabulary1 - memory game transportation vocabulary2 - memory game vegetable vocabulary - memory game weather vocabulary - memory game zoo animals - memory game, , videos for english learning: take your kids to the kids lab and teach them english using interactive videos and interactive quizzes. video vocabulary lessons include : clothes, toys, zoo animals, birthday & numbers, farm animals,transportation, weather,vegetables, colors, etc. our video files are in flash and windows flv formats, making them easy to use on most computers. watch more videos, tips: when you teach with these videos you can control the speed of learning by using the pause, play and volume buttons. listening and pronunciation can also be taught through this means. video lessons -  look, listen and repeat, interactive esl games esl fun interactive games teaching & learning grammar games - jeopardy, hangman, wheel games, snakes and ladders and more>>> vocabulary games - memory games, maze games, snakes and ladders, hangman and more>>> esl online games directory - have fun teaching and learning english with your students   math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade.  , grammar games - jeopardy, hangman, wheel games, snakes and ladders and more>>>, vocabulary games - memory games, maze games, snakes and ladders, hangman and more>>>, esl online games directory - have fun teaching and learning english with your students, interactive vocabulary quizzes/tests, esl kids lab has an interactive section with several self-grading quizzes for children. this strives to make teaching a lot easier for parents, students and teachers. self-grading quizzes for kids and beginners - we have quizzes on animals, fruits, transport, toys, classroom objects, jobs, vegetables and more vocabulary quizzes for kids and beginner english learners., listening memory games, action verbs - 12 words- memory game, action verbs vocabulary - memory game, adjective opposites - memory game, about me - self-introduction memory game, amusement park - memory game, birthday and age - memory game, body parts memory game, clothes and colours memory game, colours memory game, days of the week and daily activities - memory game, describing people - what does he look like? - memory game, directions and places - asking the way - memory game, disasters game - natural disasters vocabulary - earthquake, tsunami etc. - memory game, exercise and sports vocabulary - memory game, farm animal vocabulary - memory game, festivals vocabulary - memory game, fire safety - memory game, food vocabulary - memory game, fruits vocabulary - memory game, hobbies and activities vocabulary - memory game, i want - sentences with things we want - cd, disc man, ipod, - memory game, jobs - easy jobs - police officer, doctor, teacher etc. vocabulary - memory game, jobs - high jobs vocabulary- architect, mechanic etc- memory game, months of the year vocabulary - memory game, natural world vocabulary - rivers, lakes, oceans, mountains - memory game, numbers and colours vocabulary - memory game, numbers 1 to 10 vocabulary - memory game, numbers 10 to 20 vocabulary - memory game, olympic sports vocabulary - memory game, pets vocabulary - memory game, pets sentences - memory game, planets and solar system - memory game, school supplies 1 vocabulary - memory game, school supplies 2 vocabulary - memory game, shapes and colours vocabulary - memory game, sickness and seeing a doctor vocabulary - memory game, signs and public notices sentences - memory game, time and daily routines - memory game, toys vocabulary 1 - memory game, toys vocabulary 2 - memory game, transportation vocabulary1 - memory game, transportation vocabulary2 - memory game, vegetable vocabulary - memory game, weather vocabulary - memory game, zoo animals - memory game, interactive games & exercises for classrooms - from esl games world, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esl kids lessons - the online classroom course outline these free courses are divided into course levels. the levels reflect the developmental stage of most young learners and esl beginners. these courses are taught through online videos, and self-grading quizzes. follow the links below to get to the video lesson - click on the player to begin. look, listen and learn. later turn off the volume (mute) and let students try to say what they see. course 1 lessons unit  intro – alphabet & phonics resources.  aim: teach letters of the alphabet unit   1 – greetings - hello aim: teach basic greetings – hello, hi, goodbye. unit   2 – what’s your name? aim: to teach kids how to say their names. unit   3 – how old are you? aim: teach kids how to say their age and  learn numbers 1 to 5. unit   4 – numbers – how many? aim: teach kids how to count from 1 to 10. unit   5 a – colours – what colour is it? aim: teach kids how to describe things through colours. unit 5 b - colours vocabulary aim: teach colours vocabulary unit 5 c - green monster colours lesson aim: teach colours through a colours songs unit   6 – fruits – i like apples. aim: teach kids names of fruits and how to express likes. unit  7 – body – i have a head. aim: teach kids parts of the body. unit  8–  actions  – i can, i can’t. aim: teach kids how to express ability using simple action verbs. course 2 lessons unit  1 – animals – farms animals.  aim: teach students how to express preference by using vocabulary related to farm animals. unit   2 – family members aim: teach words and expressions used when describing family. unit  3 – school bag aim: to teach words and expressions related to classroom items. unit   4 – actions – can and can’t   aim: teach action verbs unit   5 – shapes & sizes aim: teach various shapes and adjectives to describe size. unit   6 – demonstrative pronouns – this/that/these/those aim: teach  singular and plurals of nouns and demonstrative pronouns. unit   7 – numbers – 10 to 100 aim: teach numbers 10 to 100 and pronunciation differences between long and short vowels. unit  8 – toys – where is it? aim: teach  words and expressions related to toys and to ask where things are. unit  9 –  days of the week and weekly activities aim: teach days of the week and some things we do weekly. unit 10 -   weather – what’s the weather like? aim: teach students how to ask about the weather and describe it. unit 11 -   food – what do you want to eat aim: teach students about the things we eat and express want course 3 lessons unit  1 – pets : why do you like dogs? aim: teach  names of pets and give a brief description of pets using personality adjectives. unit   2a – time – what time is it? aim: teach students how to tell the time and also how to talk about daily routines. unit   2b – time – what time is it? aim: teach students how to tell the time using quarter to/past/ half past etc. unit   3 – months & birthdays – when is your birthday? aim: teach students months of the year and how to tell dates using months and ordinal numbers. unit   4 – jobs – what people do. aim: to teach kids how to describe jobs using action verbs. unit  5  – actions – what are you doing? aim: students will learn how to describe actions in progress using the present progressive. unit   6 – transport – how do you come to school? aim: teach students different means of transport and talk about going around. unit   7 – clothes – what are you wearing today? aim: to learn to describe what someone is wearing. unit   8 –  where is it? – at home aim: teach kids prepositions of place, alongside rooms and things at home. unit  9a – vegetables – how much are the carrots? aim: teach kids vegetable vocabulary and how to go shopping for veggies. unit  9b – vegetables – extra vegetable vocabulary lesson - cauliflower, broccoli etc. aim: teach students extra vegetable vocabulary. unit  10 –  weather  and clothes  - put on your sunglasses. aim: teach kids how to talk about clothes relative to the weather. unit 11 -  zoo – what does a panda look like? aim: to teach students how to describe zoo animals by what they eat and look like.  , course 1 lessons, unit  intro – alphabet & phonics resources. , aim: teach letters of the alphabet, unit   1 – greetings - hello, aim: teach basic greetings – hello, hi, goodbye., unit   2 – what’s your name?, aim: to teach kids how to say their names., unit   3 – how old are you?, aim: teach kids how to say their age and  learn numbers 1 to 5., unit   4 – numbers – how many?, aim: teach kids how to count from 1 to 10., unit   5 a – colours – what colour is it?, aim: teach kids how to describe things through colours., unit 5 b - colours vocabulary, aim: teach colours vocabulary, unit 5 c - green monster colours lesson, aim: teach colours through a colours songs, unit   6 – fruits – i like apples., aim: teach kids names of fruits and how to express likes., unit  7 – body – i have a head., aim: teach kids parts of the body., unit  8–  actions  – i can, i can’t., aim: teach kids how to express ability using simple action verbs., course 2 lessons, unit  1 – animals – farms animals. , aim: teach students how to express preference by using vocabulary related to farm animals., unit   2 – family members, aim: teach words and expressions used when describing family., unit  3 – school bag, aim: to teach words and expressions related to classroom items., unit   4 – actions – can and can’t  , aim: teach action verbs, unit   5 – shapes & sizes, aim: teach various shapes and adjectives to describe size., unit   6 – demonstrative pronouns – this/that/these/those, aim: teach  singular and plurals of nouns and demonstrative pronouns., unit   7 – numbers – 10 to 100, aim: teach numbers 10 to 100 and pronunciation differences between long and short vowels., unit  8 – toys – where is it?, aim: teach  words and expressions related to toys and to ask where things are., unit  9 –  days of the week and weekly activities, aim: teach days of the week and some things we do weekly., unit 10 -   weather – what’s the weather like?, aim: teach students how to ask about the weather and describe it., unit 11 -   food – what do you want to eat, aim: teach students about the things we eat and express want, course 3 lessons, unit  1 – pets : why do you like dogs?, aim: teach  names of pets and give a brief description of pets using personality adjectives., unit   2a – time – what time is it?, aim: teach students how to tell the time and also how to talk about daily routines., unit   2b – time – what time is it?, aim: teach students how to tell the time using quarter to/past/ half past etc., unit   3 – months & birthdays – when is your birthday?, aim: teach students months of the year and how to tell dates using months and ordinal numbers., unit   4 – jobs – what people do., aim: to teach kids how to describe jobs using action verbs., unit  5  – actions – what are you doing?, aim: students will learn how to describe actions in progress using the present progressive., unit   6 – transport – how do you come to school?, aim: teach students different means of transport and talk about going around., unit   7 – clothes – what are you wearing today?, aim: to learn to describe what someone is wearing., unit   8 –  where is it? – at home, aim: teach kids prepositions of place, alongside rooms and things at home., unit  9a – vegetables – how much are the carrots?, aim: teach kids vegetable vocabulary and how to go shopping for veggies., unit  9b – vegetables – extra vegetable vocabulary lesson - cauliflower, broccoli etc., aim: teach students extra vegetable vocabulary., unit  10 –  weather  and clothes  - put on your sunglasses., aim: teach kids how to talk about clothes relative to the weather., unit 11 -  zoo – what does a panda look like?, aim: to teach students how to describe zoo animals by what they eat and look like., kiz school - this site offers english courses for kids from preschool, kindergarten to 6th grade. you don't have to be a professional teacher to teach kids., esl kids lab this site is an extension of english 4 kids, esl galaxy : printable worksheets, board games, word search, matching exercises, crosswords, music worksheets, video worksheets and more free stuff for all levels., english media lab: this free online classroom has a huge database of videos, esl quizzes, grammar exercises, activities for all levels, beginners, elementary, pre-intermediate, intermediate, advanced levels., esl downloads: download esl lesson plan materials and interactive exercises for students, esl games world : esl fun games for teachers and students]