[connect, tribune publishing, company info, copyright © 2022, chicago tribune][restaurant reviews, review: 3 little pigs chi makes superb chinese american food to satisfy your inner empress, review: con todo brings pamburguesa and an all-mexican wine list to logan square, review: funeral potatoes evokes midwestern memories in all the best ways, review: tribecca’s proves becca grothe’s sandwich-making prowess, from the famous cuban to midwest icons, review: milly’s pizza in the pan offers a chicago-style caramelized crust by a legend in the making, review: veggie house caters to vegans like no other chinatown restaurant, with stunning orange ‘chicken,’ fried rice, review: the wolfhound bar and kitchen redefines irish food in chicago, just in time for st. patrick’s day, most read in dining, review: armitage alehouse is a dreamy escape that deserves better food, review: ‘to tell a different story of black excellence,’ bocadillo market explores spain and the american south, column: josephine’s southern cooking, aka captain’s hard time, celebrates a lifetime of soul food in chicago, guide: 88 marketplace is an asian food wonderland hidden just west of chinatown, review: is chicago’s most exciting new steakhouse in east pilsen? a steak-obsessed critic hopes so., review: peanut park trattoria traces the heart of little italy in chicago, review: after 25 years, rubi’s tacos finally has a permanent home for one of chicago’s best tacos, most read on chicagotribune.com, craving, review: 4 chicago restaurants we didn’t get to in 2021, from nobu to kitchen & kocktails, review: kasama was supposed to be a neighborhood cafe. it’s become one of the best restaurants in the world., review: claudia is a ‘choose your own adventure’ of food nostalgia, review: the wieners circle, chicago’s most notorious hot dog stand, review: ed debevic’s looks to delight a new generation of diners — including chicago’s toughest critic, my 8-year-old daughter, owamni by the sioux chef boldly reclaims indigenous food in the midwest: ‘it’s an act of resistance that we exist’, review: korean spoon, where a food critic would eat every day if she could, latest in dining, chicago tribune articles group 10, review: solazo emerges from the fire better than ever on chicago’s southwest side, review: bar goa, an indian-portuguese escape interrupted, review: at hermosa restaurant, breathtaking cambodian fried chicken, and dinners sold out until next summer, review: alla vita wants to reboot the staid italian american joint, review: i was deeply skeptical of esmé’s $200 tasting menu, art-focused concept. i was wrong., column: dave’s red hots, chicago’s oldest hot dog stand, is even older than we thought, review: the deep-dish revival surges on with a critic’s new favorite — uncle jerry’s pizza company in cary]chicago restaurant reviews - chicago tribune[][enewspaper, obituaries, alerts, what to buy, subscribers, advertising, takeout 100, craving, drink, recipes, restaurant listings, sections, , , takeout 100, craving, drink, recipes, restaurant listings, , restaurant reviews review: 3 little pigs chi makes superb chinese american food to satisfy your inner empress chef henry cai has grown his instagram-based virtual restaurant, 3 little pigs, into a superb chinese american venture in humboldt park. by louisa chu 5:00 am, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: con todo brings pamburguesa and an all-mexican wine list to logan square con todo, which opened in logan square with jonathan zaragoza as a consulting chef, is a lively neighborhood mexican bar. by nick kindelsperger may 2, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: funeral potatoes evokes midwestern memories in all the best ways the women-owned business may remind you of thematic restaurant experiences perhaps best known at finer dining establishments like next by louisa chu apr 25, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: tribecca’s proves becca grothe’s sandwich-making prowess, from the famous cuban to midwest icons chicago isn’t exactly starved for sandwiches, but tribecca's in avondale crafts multiple showstoppers using ingredients sourced as locally as it gets. by nick kindelsperger apr 18, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: milly’s pizza in the pan offers a chicago-style caramelized crust by a legend in the making at milly's pizza in the pan, award-winning pizza-maker robert maleski has evolved into his own maximalist pop-art style in uptown. by louisa chu apr 11, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: veggie house caters to vegans like no other chinatown restaurant, with stunning orange ‘chicken,’ fried rice veggie house is the only vegetarian and vegan restaurant in chicago's chinatown, with saucy three-cup lion’s mane mushrooms and stunning orange "chicken." by louisa chu mar 28, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: the wolfhound bar and kitchen redefines irish food in chicago, just in time for st. patrick’s day chicago firefighter brendan byrne just opened the wolfhound, an irish-inspired bar and restaurant in the avondale neighborhood — but don't expect corned beef on the menu. by louisa chu mar 14, 2022, restaurant reviews, review: 3 little pigs chi makes superb chinese american food to satisfy your inner empress 5:00 am, iconic neon sign at orange garden restaurant winds up in surprising hands after auction may 6, 2022, why do egg rolls in chicago taste like peanut butter? and more egg roll questions answered mar 8, 2018, how to smoke brisket, the texas crutch way sep 4, 2015, the 20 best italian beefs in chicago — one reporter tries more than 50 to pick the no. 1 sandwich jul 22, 2020, restaurant reviews review: armitage alehouse is a dreamy escape that deserves better food armitage alehouse is an escape from reality, transporting diners from chicago's lincoln park to a 1926 london pub. but the anglo-indian menu has more than a few misfires. by nick kindelsperger feb 28, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: ‘to tell a different story of black excellence,’ bocadillo market explores spain and the american south critic louisa chu reviews bocadillo market, a new black-owned chicago restaurant by chef james martin in lincoln park, exploring spain and american southern food. by louisa chu feb 22, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews column: josephine’s southern cooking, aka captain’s hard time, celebrates a lifetime of soul food in chicago chicago’s oldest black woman-owned soul food restaurant, josephine’s southern cooking, aka captain’s hard time, celebrates founder mother wade. by louisa chu feb 14, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews guide: 88 marketplace is an asian food wonderland hidden just west of chinatown just west of chicago's chinatown, the new 88 marketplace food court offers hot pot, sushi, bubble tea, barbecue, pho and chinese specialties. by louisa chu and nick kindelsperger feb 9, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: is chicago’s most exciting new steakhouse in east pilsen? a steak-obsessed critic hopes so. holu steakhouse opened in the jefferson square marketplace in the east pilsen neighborhood of chicago with steaks cooked tableside. by nick kindelsperger jan 31, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: peanut park trattoria traces the heart of little italy in chicago peanut park trattoria's little italy roots can be traced to beloved chicago restaurants tempesta market, coalfire and ristorante agostino. by louisa chu jan 24, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: after 25 years, rubi’s tacos finally has a permanent home for one of chicago’s best tacos that rubi’s serves one of chicago’s best tacos is no secret, but you used to have to wait until the weekly maxwell street market to get your fix. not anymore. by nick kindelsperger jan 18, 2022, restaurant reviews, 1. chicago mayor’s race 2023 lineup: who is in, who is out, who is undecided 5:00 am, 2. review: 3 little pigs chi makes superb chinese american food to satisfy your inner empress 5:00 am, 3. ‘chicagoans feel like they own the loop’: violence resonates downtown as city’s center reflects troubles in its neighborhoods may 8, 4. former student opens fire at florida high school, killing at least 17 feb 14, 5. daily horoscope for may 9, 2022 12:00 am, craving: south side, craving: french, craving: appetizers, small plates and snacks, craving: korean, craving: meat, craving: deals, craving: dessert, craving: noodles, craving: coffee, craving: midwest food & drink, craving: ice cream, craving: steaks, craving: bars, craving: lunch, craving: fried food, craving: chinese food, craving: smart eating, craving: baked goods, craving: cheap eats, craving: italian, craving: cocktails, craving: sausages, craving: beer, craving: barbecue, craving: sandwiches, craving: mexican food, restaurant reviews review: 4 chicago restaurants we didn’t get to in 2021, from nobu to kitchen & kocktails tribune food critics pen mini reviews of four chicago restaurants that opened in 2021: jaleo, nobu, kitchen & kocktails and provaré. by nick kindelsperger and louisa chu jan 10, 2022, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: kasama was supposed to be a neighborhood cafe. it’s become one of the best restaurants in the world. along with being a daytime cafe, kasama's stunning dinner tasting menu makes it one of the best restaurants not just in chicago, but the world. by louisa chu dec 27, 2021, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: claudia is a ‘choose your own adventure’ of food nostalgia claudia’s permanent location in chicago's bucktown neighborhood captures all of chef trevor teich’s passion, even if you have to go twice to experience it all. by nick kindelsperger dec 20, 2021, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: the wieners circle, chicago’s most notorious hot dog stand the wieners circle reopens in chicago with a new bar and cocktails, plus an excellent char dog and the notorious side of verbal abuse. by louisa chu dec 13, 2021, restaurant reviews, dining review: ed debevic’s looks to delight a new generation of diners — including chicago’s toughest critic, my 8-year-old daughter ed debevic’s is a quintessential chicago childhood memory for so many. after the original location closed six years ago, the retro diner is back. by nick kindelsperger dec 6, 2021, dining, restaurant reviews owamni by the sioux chef boldly reclaims indigenous food in the midwest: ‘it’s an act of resistance that we exist’ chef sean sherman's new minneapolis restaurant, owamni by the sioux chef, shows there's appetite for indigenous food made with decolonized ingredients. by louisa chu nov 18, 2021, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: korean spoon, where a food critic would eat every day if she could korean spoon, a small mom-and-pop shop in chicago suburb glenview, reminds food critic louisa chu of homemade korean meals. by louisa chu nov 8, 2021, restaurant reviews, review: 3 little pigs chi makes superb chinese american food to satisfy your inner empress 5:00 am, iconic neon sign at orange garden restaurant winds up in surprising hands after auction may 6, 2022, old post office food hall, from team behind empty bottle and thalia hall, slated to open in june may 4, 2022, eat. watch. do. — chicago’s best tacos, ‘shining girls’ review, plus a lunar eclipse may 4, 2022, taste test: tip top canned cocktails are not only tip top — they’re adorable too may 4, 2022, commemorate history with the chicago tribune birthday book! -shop now, challenge yourself with online puzzles & games. play now, get 20% off the 'ask amy' 2nd edition book -shop now, no-nonsense advice for better living delivered to your inbox every morning. explore now, restaurant reviews review: solazo emerges from the fire better than ever on chicago’s southwest side el solazo closed after a 2019 fire, but has returned to chicago as solazo. tribune critic nick kindelsperger says the restaurant has improved. by nick kindelsperger nov 1, 2021, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: bar goa, an indian-portuguese escape interrupted bar goa is a new indian and portuguese restaurant in river north from the chef and owners of rooh chicago, and also opened a stall in time out market. by louisa chu oct 25, 2021, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: at hermosa restaurant, breathtaking cambodian fried chicken, and dinners sold out until next summer chef ethan lim's hermosa started off as a casual sandwich shop in chicago, but it's high-end private dinners are one of the hardest seats to get in town. by louisa chu oct 11, 2021, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: alla vita wants to reboot the staid italian american joint alla vita's design is a slight head fake, because at its base it's a clever spin on the italian american red sauce joint, albeit one that decided to eschew the design cliches and come into the light. by nick kindelsperger oct 8, 2021, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: i was deeply skeptical of esmé’s $200 tasting menu, art-focused concept. i was wrong. esmé is a new fine-dining restaurant in chicago with $200 dinners. tribune critic nick kindelsperger reviews the lincoln park spot's tasting menu. by nick kindelsperger oct 4, 2021, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews column: dave’s red hots, chicago’s oldest hot dog stand, is even older than we thought dave's red hots is the oldest hot dog stand in chicago, but descendants of the first owner say it's even older than critic louisa chu had first heard. by louisa chu sep 20, 2021, restaurant reviews, restaurant reviews review: the deep-dish revival surges on with a critic’s new favorite — uncle jerry’s pizza company in cary uncle jerry's is worth the drive to cary for fans of chicago-style pizza, whether you consider theirs deep-dish or pan pizza. by nick kindelsperger sep 13, 2021, restaurant reviews, , , , , new york daily news, orlando sentinel, the morning call of pa., daily press of va., the daily meal, the baltimore sun, sun sentinel of fla., hartford courant, the virginian-pilot, studio 1847, careers, help center, terms of service, contact us, manage web notifications, media kit, about us, privacy policy, archives, local print ads, chicago tribune store, do not sell my personal information]