[if you loved this site, we have just given you an even better reason to love it more. our maximum esl fun games for classrooms is here! .these games are a teacher's dream of engaging, entertaining and teaching effectively. simply bring life back to your esl classrooms. be the teacher your students always remember!wait for game to load completely before playing.for best results do not use internet explorer. firefox, google chrome & safari are ideal. if you insist on internet explorer and games with images don't show, click on the image space and wait. see this tutorial for help>>>send feedback if you need help., , spin off - let the big wheel turn and students answer questions in teams. resizable groups. can be customized to suit both classroom and individual learning. put students into teams and play or simply choose single player option., games for esl kids - vocabulary games, spelling games, grammar games, fun english activities online, this games has 53 questions to help you practice vocabulary, grammar and sentences of level 1., this games has 50 questions to help you practice vocabulary, grammar and sentences of level 2., this games has 69 questions to help you practice vocabulary, grammar and sentences of level 3., this games has 59 questions to help you practice vocabulary, grammar and sentences of level 4., this games has 58 questions to help you practice vocabulary, grammar and sentences of level 5., this games has 49 questions to help you practice vocabulary, grammar and sentences of level 6., , this jeopardy quiz show rocks! the teacher puts students into teams represented by different characters and play. students earn points, 100 - 500 for questions answered. choose a topics and proceed. excellent but not limited to review., win billions by answering questions. can be played in groups of two or choose single player option for self-study. very flexible for use in the classroom. teachers can enter points, deduct points and change teams according to different questions., , a question is asked and the team has a few seconds to tell the answer. if they give the correct answer, the teacher reveals it and enter points according to the answer. students compete in teams and win., in this category, you will find games that practice: grammar, vocabulary, reading, spelling, pronunciation and listening skills., board games and more games you can print and take to class can be found here.also you will find templates for building yours., easy categorization of the games by levels of students. browse games by levels. for convenience we have easy, medium & high levels, designed to help you bring fun to the class, our ppt games are excellent classroom games for classes with white boards and computers., templates help you to quickly build customized games and activities for your esl/efl lessons., esl powerpoint (ppt) games, if you are the type of person who prefers to have games on powerpoint or as printable handouts, we have been thinking of you. we offer board games, powerpoint games and more for the classroom and one to one teaching. they have made my lessons fun and i have no doubt yours will be fun too. added to the good news are the templates we offer that you can use to create customized games for your classroom and teaching., it is total fun and highly engaging fun lessons with these resources. games have the power or eliminating negative emotions and keeping learning total fun.with the absence of the affective filter, learning is much more effective.visit this page., we offer a variety of printable esl board games and card games to help give your students lots of communicative practice. these games are in printable esl pdf and ms word formats. all of these games have been used in esl classrooms and trust me when i say they work great. we have games like the crocodile board games, pirate game, round table card game, q and a card game, power cards and more games of our creation. visit this page., esl board & powerpoint games templates, esl game templates - powerpoint and word game templates, on esl games world we do not only aim at providing you with games for your classrooms. we have taken a step further to offer you free esl games templates to empower you with the tools to make your own exercises. create powerpoint and printable games in minutes. we understand that you may not have too much time for planning a lesson. this is why we offer you our most precious game templates for free. create your own exercises using our highly intuitive game templates. with our templates, creating materials have never been easier. you will create customized games to practice the language focus of your lessons., classroom tools - click here!, get some cool tools for use in your classroom. there are timers here and gadgets that are useful to both esl teachers and students., a great game adapted for your learning and teaching. simply spin the wheel and voila!, students love snakes and ladders. so why not teach and learn english with this game., these betting games have been designed to greatly help in practicing vocabulary and sentences., old time favourite hangman games are here to add to the fun. it is all about practice and play.][esl classroom games, spin off esl games, classroom fun games for teaching english to kids, revision spin off games from kizschool.com, level 1 - lower beginner revision, level 2 - higher beginner revision, level 3 - lower elementary revision, level 4 higher elementary revision, level 5 pre-intermediate revision, level 6 pre-intermediate/lower intermediate revision, low level games, medium/high level games, jeopardy quiz show esl games, easy level games, medium/high level games, billionaire esl games, easy level billionaire games, medium/high level billionaire games, show down esl games, easy level show down games, medium to high level show down games, picture labeling games, listening memory games, text-only memory games, assorted vocabulary games - snakes and ladders, mazes, matching, quizzes etc., grammar games here>>>, about esl games world, directory, levels & games, commercial, site, website focus, esl for young learners, printable exercises, interactive esl quizzes]esl interactive fun games for classroom practice[see this tutorial for help>>>, send feedback if you need help., beginner revision spin off - animals, clothes, colours & numbers - with pictures, school - subjects, supplies, school rooms, and school actions, verb tenses - past simple, future, present perfect, word building quiz games - adjectives opposites, synonyms, prefixes, suffixes, extreme adjectives, verb forms - name 5 forms of the verb to sing - sing, sings, sang, singing and sung - 10 points, bedroom - inside the bedroom labeling, body parts labeling exercise, clothes drag and drop labeling exercise, farm animals labeling game exercise - drag and drop, food vocabulary labeling exercise, fruits labeling exercise, kitchen words - coffee maker,, cooker, pets vocabulary - dog, cat, iguana, school stationery words - pencil sharpener etc., shapes labeling exercise - drag and drop, tools vocabulary labeling - drag and drop, transportation vocabulary labeling exercise, vegetable vocabulary labeling exercise, esl, efl, tefl, esol, games, printable games, powerpoint games, ppt games, templates, online games, classroom games, word games , word puzzles , crossword puzzles , board games, interactive games, esl activities, dave's esl café, barry fun english, grammar games, spelling games , grammar games online , vocabulary games , esl kids games][home, games, levels, printable games, ppt games, tools, templates, store, plus kizphonics esl games plus, kizphonics, esl games plus, beginner revision spin off - animals, clothes, colours & numbers - with pictures, elementary revision spin off - body parts, actions, stationery, zoo animals, family & numbers, home actions and furniture vocabulary review spin off, food, veggies, actions and fruits vocabulary spin off revision, school - subjects, supplies, school rooms, and school actions, prepositions game - for elementary to pre-intermediate levels, geography spin wheel game : countries, cities, continents, natural world & landmarks, pre-intermediate, jobs, animals, space, tools, products & materials, beginner review- animals, colours, fruits and numbers, hobbies, activities and sports quiz show games, transportation, jobs, places and daily routines, irregular past simple verb tense quiz show, verb tenses - past simple, future, present perfect, word building quiz games - adjectives opposites, synonyms, prefixes, suffixes, extreme adjectives, , present tenses action verbs grammar billionaire game - with pictures of the actions, students choose the correct action., prepositions of place - in, on, under, behind, in front of, next to, food partitives/quantifiers billionaire game - a slice of, a piece of, a glass of, a cup of, singular plurals of nouns - billionaire game, countries vocabulary billionaire game - can you recognize countries by flags?, countries and nationalities billionaire games - someone from netherlands is ______, conditionals billionaire game - first, second, third and zero conditionals practice games, adjectives opposites1 - what is the opposite of ...? answer and score 10 points, adjectives opposites2 - what is the opposite of ...? answer and score 10 points, adjectives opposites3 - what is the opposite of ...? answer and score 10 points, verb forms - name 5 forms of the verb to sing - sing, sings, sang, singing and sung - 10 points, bathroom objects labeling, bedroom - inside the bedroom labeling, body parts labeling exercise, clothes drag and drop labeling exercise, farm animals labeling game exercise - drag and drop, food vocabulary labeling exercise, fruits labeling exercise, kitchen words - coffee maker,, cooker, pets vocabulary - dog, cat, iguana, school stationery words - pencil sharpener etc., shapes labeling exercise - drag and drop, tools vocabulary labeling - drag and drop, transportation vocabulary labeling exercise, vegetable vocabulary labeling exercise, listening memory games action verbs - 12 words- memory game action verbs vocabulary - memory game adjective opposites - memory game, action verbs - 12 words- memory game, action verbs vocabulary - memory game, adjective opposites - memory game, about me - self-introduction memory game, amusement park - memory game, birthday and age - memory game, body parts memory game, clothes and colours memory game, colours memory game, days of the week and daily activities - memory game, describing people - what does he look like? - memory game, directions and places - asking the way - memory game, disasters game - natural disasters vocabulary - earthquake, tsunami etc. - memory game, exercise and sports vocabulary - memory game, farm animal vocabulary - memory game, festivals vocabulary - memory game, fire safety - memory game, food vocabulary - memory game, fruits vocabulary - memory game, hobbies and activities vocabulary - memory game, i want - sentences with things we want - cd, discman, ipod, - memory game, jobs - easy jobs - police officer, doctor, teacher etc. vocabulary - memory game, jobs - high jobs vocabulary- architect, mechanic etc- memory game, months of the year vocabulary - memory game, natural world vocabulary - rivers, lakes, oceans, mountains - memory game, numbers and colours vocabulary - memory game, numbers 1 to 10 vocabulary - memory game, numbers 10 to 20 vocabulary - memory game, olympic sports vocabulary - memory game, pets vocabulary - memory game, pets sentences - memory game, planets and solar system - memory game, school supplies 1 vocabulary - memory game, school supplies 2 vocabulary - memory game, shapes and colours vocabulary - memory game, sickness and seeing a doctor vocabulary - memory game, signs and public notices sentences - memory game, time and daily routines - memory game, toys vocabulary 1 - memory game, toys vocabulary 2 - memory game, transportation vocabulary1 - memory game, transportation vocabulary2 - memory game, vegetable vocabulary - memory game, weather vocabulary - memory game, zoo animals - memory game, action verbs - 6 verbs- memory game, countries and continents vocabulary - memory game, countries and flags memory game, food vocabulary - memory game, holiday activities - memory game, tableware - memory game, transportation vocabulary - memory game, travel around the world - memory game, zoo animal description vocabulary - memory game, zoo animal memory game, snakes and ladders beginner review game, wheel game - elementary revision game, jobs hangman game, weather catching game, animal facts true or false maze game, jobs circle maze game, do or make collocation spelling game, weather wild card spelling game, zoo animals swap spelling game, job description matching exercise, action verbs picture quiz, food picture quiz, games interactive, grammar games, vocabulary games, pronunciation, reading games, easy/beginner, medium level, high levels, classroom games, printable games, powerpoint games, esl store, kids ebooks, grammar ebooks, advertise on this site, about, copyright, sitemap, internal links, external links, learn chinese, worksheets sets, esl ppt & video slides, esl flashcards by set, phonics and phonetics, ebooks for esl kids, grammar printables, vocabulary printables, phonetic/pronunciation, grammar & vocabulary ebooks, esl grammar quizzes online, vocabulary quizzes & exercises, pronunciation quizzes, beginner quizzes, video lessons]