[an alphabet is a set of letters or symbols that we use to represent the basic speech sounds of a language in writing., this page looks at writing the english alphabet. you can read about pronouncing the english alphabet here., the english alphabet has 26 letters, starting with a and ending with z. below you see the whole alphabet., we can write each letter of the english alphabet as a "small letter" (abc) or as a "large letter" (abc). large letters are also called "capital letters" or "capitals"., below you see the whole alphabet with small letters on the left and capitals on the right:, printed letters of the alphabet come in different styles or designs. each style is called a "font". this page shows all 26 characters, as small and large letters, in 5 different styles. each column displays a different font style, in this order:, , the english alphabet starts with the letter a and finishes with the letter z. we always write the alphabet in the same order:, a-b-c-d-e-f-g-h-i-j-k-l-m-n-o-p-q-r-s-t-u-v-w-x-y-z, a-b-c-d-e-f-g-h-i-j-k-l-m-n-o-p-q-r-s-t-u-v-w-x-y-z, this order is called "alphabetical order". we often write lists in alphabetical order. for example, to write a list of countries in alphabetical order, we start with countries that begin with the letter a, then with countries that begin with b, and so on. for example:, if more than one word begins with the letter a, we put them in order based on the second letter, and then the third letter, and so on:, we use alphabetical order for many things, for example:, covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][english alphabet, letters of the english alphabet, small and large letters, font styles, alphabetical order, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]english alphabet | writing | englishclub[alphabet, writing the english alphabet, pronouncing the english alphabet, a, z, free podcasts, serif, fixed-width, sans-serif, cursive, fantasy, a, z, a-b-c-d-e-f-g-h-i-j-k-l-m-n-o-p-q-r-s-t-u-v-w-x-y-z, a-b-c-d-e-f-g-h-i-j-k-l-m-n-o-p-q-r-s-t-u-v-w-x-y-z][serif: with serifs, or little projections, at the end of most strokes, fixed-width: like old typewriter lettering - each letter is about the same width, so "i" takes up the same space as "w", sans-serif: with no serifs, cursive: like handwriting, fantasy: fancy, artistic, australia, brazil, canada, algeria, argentina, belgium, benin, bermuda, dictionaries, indexes of books, telephone directories, phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]