[this free test evaluates how well you understand what you read in english. it is strictly called a written comprehension test because it shows how well you comprehend what somebody writes. you have 15 minutes to do this test. you must stop after 15 minutes and press the "your score is..." button. there are 20 questions., we do not give answers to this test because it is designed to test your level. you can take the test again in a few months to see if your level has improved., for each question, choose the answer that is closest in meaning to the original sentence., example: the following question is an example only. when you are sure that you understand what you have to do, press the "start your test" button., 0. linda has a white cat and a black cat., , covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][test your english reading level, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]test your english reading level | reading | englishclub[15 minutes, test your level, closest in meaning to the original sentence, example, example, 0. linda has a white cat and a black cat.][phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]