[if you answer the phone and you hear someone speaking in english, don't be afraid to reply. the fear of talking on the phone in a second language will disappear if you practise often. most people find speaking on the phone in a language that's not their own quite difficult at first because they can't see the other person's eyes, mouth and body movements (or body language). in face-to-face conversation we communicate not only with words, but also with our eyes, with facial expressions like smiles and frowns, and by moving our hands and bodies. when speaking on the phone, however, all you can use is spoken language. but speaking on the phone will become much easier after you've learned the special vocabulary and phrases in the pages that follow and had a chance to practise them., telephones have changed a lot over the years. before the first mobile phones (or cell phones) were invented over thirty years ago, nearly everyone used phones connected to telephone lines. these lines ran to telephone exchanges in which calls were connected through a switchboard. these landline phones are still being used in some places, but most people now use mobile phones or smartphones. these phones send signals through the air rather than through physical telephone lines. the most advanced phones are called smartphones. these are like small computers with many functions besides making telephone calls. you can send text messages, take and send photos, record and play audio and video files, connect to the internet, and do much more. even though telephone technology has changed a lot over the years, the language and vocabulary used when making a call has remained mostly the same., covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][telephone english, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]telephone english | speaking | englishclub[][telephone english, telephone vocabulary, telephone vocabulary quiz, telephone phrases, telephone tips, phone practice 1: making an appointment, phone practice 2: taking a message, phone practice 3: ordering a pizza, phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]