[welcome to englishclub reading for esl learners, to help you learn and practise the skill of reading english., reading skills guide why reading is important and how you can do it better, english alphabet how to recognize english letters aa to zz, including fonts and alphabetical order, reading for kids a collection of printable short stories for young learners of english (elementary to upper-intermediate). with audio and exercises., short stories a selection of short stories for upper-intermediate to advanced learners, some with vocabulary and comprehension quizzes., read about sports read about sports like football, basketball, tennis, golf and baseball. includes history, how to play and famous players. with vocabulary and quizzes., read about music read about your favourite singers and groups, including pop, rock, country, soul, hip hop and dance music. with videos and vocabulary lists., read about movies read about your favourite movies including horror movies, sci-fi, drama, action and documentaries. with videos and vocabulary lists., read about environmental issues texts and reading exercises for learners passionate about the environment, for example pollution and endangered species., read about health issues texts and reading exercises for learners who like to follow health issues, with topics including organic foods and the dangers of transfats., driverless cars coming soon read about progress in the development of autonomous vehicles and try the online quiz to check your understanding., classic texts short, famous texts to read in english from classic sources like the bible or shakespeare. with word definitions and explanations to help you, reading exercises topic-based reading exercises, each one including a reading text, pre-reading vocab, comprehension/vocab quizzes and suggested discussion questions, selected proverbs here are some traditional sayings that are well known to english speakers. some of them come from other languages, but they are frequently used in english., suggested reading for english learners classified by author, age-group and type, the olympic games this reading tells the story of the olympic games from ancient to modern times, and describes the symbols, music, medals, motto, people and events., 40,000,000 christmas puddings! that's a lot of pudding! each year, as the year draws to a close, people in britain tuck in to one of their favourite traditional recipes., improve your english through reading how to make progress by reading., covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][english reading skills, reading practice, recommended books and reading lists, more reading articles, recommended reading links, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]reading skills | learn english | englishclub[reading, reading skills guide, english alphabet, reading for kids, short stories, read about sports, read about music, read about movies, read about environmental issues, read about health issues, driverless cars coming soon, classic texts, reading exercises, selected proverbs, free podcasts][what is reading? reading is the third of the four language skills, which are: 1. listening 2. speaking 3. reading 4. writing, reading test check how well you understand written english with this online test., reading quizzes, british council reading skills, how to improve english reading with 8 easy steps, reading page at wikipedia, phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]