[sign up for the spin, the tribune’s political newsletter, sign up for the spin, the tribune’s political newsletter, connect, tribune publishing, company info, copyright © 2022, chicago tribune][elections, , with abortion rights moving to the fore, suburban women voters in illinois are key in race for governor, chicago mayor’s race 2023 lineup: who is in, who is out, who is undecided, audit blasts pritzker administration for failed response to lasalle veterans’ home covid-19 outbreak that killed 36, cook county assessor’s race heats up with $1 million contribution to challenger in democratic primary, top rival to sheriff tom dart vows appeal after being tossed from ballot over controversial provision in new law, chicago releases video as bid for democratic national convention in 2024 is made official, us rep. mike quigley won’t run for chicago mayor in 2023; lightfoot expected to announce reelection bid soon, measures aimed at easing ongoing teacher shortage signed into law by gov. j.b. pritzker, ethics and lobbying become a focus in the cook county assessor’s race, ‘these are not casual decisions.’ changing dynamics about crime and politics have wide-ranging influence on state board., in illinois secretary of state race, afl-cio stays neutral months after affiliated workers backed giannoulias, another billionaire throws major cash into the race for illinois governor, illinois gets credit upgrade as gov. j.b. pritzker, democrats campaign on improving state’s financial health, two longtime democratic state senators with ties to indicted ex-house speaker michael madigan drop reelection bids, gov. pritzker and gop challenger richard irvin each spent about $10 million on campaign ads in first three months of 2022, election results, see full results from municipal elections in the chicago suburbs, 2020 election results, how did your neighbors vote for president, senate and the graduated-rate income tax amendment?, chicago releases video as bid for democratic national convention in 2024 is made official, us rep. mike quigley won’t run for chicago mayor in 2023; lightfoot expected to announce reelection bid soon, measures aimed at easing ongoing teacher shortage signed into law by gov. j.b. pritzker, ethics and lobbying become a focus in the cook county assessor’s race, ‘these are not casual decisions.’ changing dynamics about crime and politics have wide-ranging influence on state board., in illinois secretary of state race, afl-cio stays neutral months after affiliated workers backed giannoulias, another billionaire throws major cash into the race for illinois governor, illinois gets credit upgrade as gov. j.b. pritzker, democrats campaign on improving state’s financial health, two longtime democratic state senators with ties to indicted ex-house speaker michael madigan drop reelection bids, gov. pritzker and gop challenger richard irvin each spent about $10 million on campaign ads in first three months of 2022]elections - chicago tribune[][enewspaper, obituaries, alerts, what to buy, subscribers, advertising, more politics news, sign up to get our news alerts, sign up to get our newsletters, elections with abortion rights moving to the fore, suburban women voters in illinois are key in race for governor following leak of supreme court draft overturning roe, spotlight shines even brighter in illinois governor's race on suburban women voters. by rick pearson 5:00 am, elections, elections chicago mayor’s race 2023 lineup: who is in, who is out, who is undecided the chicago tribune is breaking down the list of those who say they will run, those still thinking about it and those who say they won’t. by gregory pratt 5:00 am, elections, politics audit blasts pritzker administration for failed response to lasalle veterans’ home covid-19 outbreak that killed 36 illinois public health officials didn’t show up at the lasalle veterans home until 11 days after th a covid-19 outbreak that wound up killing 36 residents began, according to a new report from the state auditor general. by rick pearson may 5, 2022, politics, elections cook county assessor’s race heats up with $1 million contribution to challenger in democratic primary the fight back fund is affiliated with the local 150 international union of operating engineers, a union that benefits from building and development. by alice yin may 4, 2022, elections, elections top rival to sheriff tom dart vows appeal after being tossed from ballot over controversial provision in new law a new, little-known state law changed the requirements for running for sheriff. by alice yin may 4, 2022, elections, elections chicago releases video as bid for democratic national convention in 2024 is made official chicago officially in hunt for 2024 democratic national convention with release of video. by rick pearson may 3, 2022, elections, elections us rep. mike quigley won’t run for chicago mayor in 2023; lightfoot expected to announce reelection bid soon u.s. rep. mike quigley said he won't run for chicago mayor because it would interfere with his focus on “stopping putin’s genocidal war in ukraine.” by gregory pratt apr 28, 2022, elections, politics measures aimed at easing ongoing teacher shortage signed into law by gov. j.b. pritzker measures aimed at easing a shortage of qualified teachers in illinois were signed into law by gov. j.b. pritzker. by clare spaulding apr 27, 2022, politics, elections ethics and lobbying become a focus in the cook county assessor’s race assessor fritz kaegi blasting opponent kari steele over her husband’s work as a lobbyist for real estate development firm. by alice yin apr 27, 2022, elections, politics ‘these are not casual decisions.’ changing dynamics about crime and politics have wide-ranging influence on state board. for the illinois prisoner review board, often nuanced decisions are caught in the world of politics. by jeremy gorner apr 26, 2022, politics, elections in illinois secretary of state race, afl-cio stays neutral months after affiliated workers backed giannoulias the lack of an endorsement is good news for giannoulias’ two major opponents, chicago city clerk anna valencia and ald. david moore. by jeremy gorner apr 22, 2022, elections, elections another billionaire throws major cash into the race for illinois governor in the gop race for governor, richard uihlein's $2.5 million to darren bailey still trails griffin's $20 million to richard irvin. by rick pearson and clare spaulding apr 21, 2022, elections, politics illinois gets credit upgrade as gov. j.b. pritzker, democrats campaign on improving state’s financial health credit agency said even with series of upgrades that illinois’ credit remains lower than any other state in the nation. by dan petrella apr 21, 2022, politics, elections two longtime democratic state senators with ties to indicted ex-house speaker michael madigan drop reelection bids sens. steve landek's and tony muñoz's decisions open the door for allies to become the next state senators for seats in chicago and the western suburbs. by dan petrella apr 21, 2022, elections, elections gov. pritzker and gop challenger richard irvin each spent about $10 million on campaign ads in first three months of 2022 big bucks spent on campaign ads months before the june 28 primary sets the stage for a costly war of words. by rick pearson apr 19, 2022, elections, get more election coverage here, politics, full election results here, elections chicago releases video as bid for democratic national convention in 2024 is made official chicago officially in hunt for 2024 democratic national convention with release of video. by rick pearson may 3, 2022, elections, elections us rep. mike quigley won’t run for chicago mayor in 2023; lightfoot expected to announce reelection bid soon u.s. rep. mike quigley said he won't run for chicago mayor because it would interfere with his focus on “stopping putin’s genocidal war in ukraine.” by gregory pratt apr 28, 2022, elections, politics measures aimed at easing ongoing teacher shortage signed into law by gov. j.b. pritzker measures aimed at easing a shortage of qualified teachers in illinois were signed into law by gov. j.b. pritzker. by clare spaulding apr 27, 2022, politics, elections ethics and lobbying become a focus in the cook county assessor’s race assessor fritz kaegi blasting opponent kari steele over her husband’s work as a lobbyist for real estate development firm. by alice yin apr 27, 2022, elections, politics ‘these are not casual decisions.’ changing dynamics about crime and politics have wide-ranging influence on state board. for the illinois prisoner review board, often nuanced decisions are caught in the world of politics. by jeremy gorner apr 26, 2022, politics, elections in illinois secretary of state race, afl-cio stays neutral months after affiliated workers backed giannoulias the lack of an endorsement is good news for giannoulias’ two major opponents, chicago city clerk anna valencia and ald. david moore. by jeremy gorner apr 22, 2022, elections, elections another billionaire throws major cash into the race for illinois governor in the gop race for governor, richard uihlein's $2.5 million to darren bailey still trails griffin's $20 million to richard irvin. by rick pearson and clare spaulding apr 21, 2022, elections, politics illinois gets credit upgrade as gov. j.b. pritzker, democrats campaign on improving state’s financial health credit agency said even with series of upgrades that illinois’ credit remains lower than any other state in the nation. by dan petrella apr 21, 2022, politics, elections two longtime democratic state senators with ties to indicted ex-house speaker michael madigan drop reelection bids sens. steve landek's and tony muñoz's decisions open the door for allies to become the next state senators for seats in chicago and the western suburbs. by dan petrella apr 21, 2022, elections, elections gov. pritzker and gop challenger richard irvin each spent about $10 million on campaign ads in first three months of 2022 big bucks spent on campaign ads months before the june 28 primary sets the stage for a costly war of words. by rick pearson apr 19, 2022, elections, , , , , new york daily news, orlando sentinel, the morning call of pa., daily press of va., the daily meal, the baltimore sun, sun sentinel of fla., hartford courant, the virginian-pilot, studio 1847, careers, help center, terms of service, contact us, manage web notifications, media kit, about us, privacy policy, archives, local print ads, chicago tribune store, do not sell my personal information]