[, the campus geeks connect program is a platform for students who are passionate for coding and very active in programming competitions, clubs and activities around the campus. being one of the largest placement preparation portal for software job aspirants, geeksforgeeks is now planning to develop communities around campuses. campus geek of the month is a renowned title rewarded to the best performing campus ambassador for a particular month., , for more details and application procedure, click here, how can i become “campus geek of the month”? geek of the month is decided by the end of every month on the basis of the performance of campus ambassadors in their campus. the considered metrics are active participation, course registrations, workshop organizations, and much more. you can also be a star in your campus and feel like a boss! apply for campus geeks connect program today., name: arpit kumar testimonial: “the difference between a successful person and others is not a lack of strength, not a lack of knowledge but rather a lack of will. ~vince lombardi, this is arpit kumar, campus mantri at guru tegh bahadur institute of technology, new delhi for the 2021-22 session. first of all, i wanna give thanks to my mentor divya ma’am who regularly keeps asking me for feedback like what other mantri want from geeksforgeeks through this program and even brings various opportunities too that could benefit us in the future also. and for selecting me as a host for the february meeting. throughout the tenure, we learned so much from the various workshops exclusively for campus mantri, like the linkedin workshop by devanshu monga sir, and one of the most amazing sessions by sandeep jain sir, on stepping stones for the aspiring entrepreneurs where our most common doubts were cleared. it was a fruitful experience as a campus mantri for geeksforgeeks where we connected with other mantri from different colleges all over india. we mantri enjoyed playing with stickers haha and also shared various resources and opportunities with each other that are helpful for all of us for college studies and placements. i connected with so many great people on linkedin by sharing the opportunity that gfg provides. learned marketing stuff and how to write a perfect post that reaches a wider audience. i have improved my communication skills and by sharing the opportunity, i built my personal brand on linkedin, by which big companies start approaching me for their promotional post. it’s rightly said that opportunities don’t happen, you have to create them. i remember the day when i was applying for the campus mantri program but there i couldn’t find my college name, then i mailed to the gfg support team and within an hour, i received a response that “we have added your institution”. it was the day when i thought i had done something great! after completing one year tenure in geeksforgeeks as a campus mantri, i could say that this program is for sure a great opportunity for first-year students to explore and make connections that could help them lifelong be it in getting referrals for placements, or getting guidance from any professional who is working in big mncs and have experience.”, name: kshitij tandon testimonial: “many of life’s failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up.”– thomas a. edison, hello everyone, this is kshitij tandon, campus mantri geeksforgeeks at jaypee university of engineering and technology (juet) 2021-2022., it’s my pleasure to be the campus mantri of the month. it’s been a long journey being a campus mantri in gfg. as we are heading towards getting our tenure to end which we don’t want but everything in our life has its end at some point. like the way our journey in gfg as a campus mantri will end soon with lots of memories, interacting with the people you never know, getting to work with the best teammates, go to enhance ourselves in every aspect in terms of work, corporate experience, how a team works, etc. we got the best mentors we can ever get divya ma’am to be precise. she had been the best mentor to us. always there to support us in every aspect of our work. i would like to conclude by thanking all the members of gfg for being so kind and supportive. i would conclude with the quote “life is not a problem to be solved, but a reality to be experienced.”– soren kierkegaard”, name: anushka singh testimonial: “one day, in retrospect, the years of struggle will strike you as the most beautiful.” – sigmund freud., a very warm greeting by my side! this is anushka singh, campus mantri geeksforgeeks at chitkara university 2021-2022. it’s been a long time since i joined gfg community and with my ending tenure exiting with the honor of campus mantri of the month is like settling with glory, and why not gfg with the opportunity provided always taught to never settle with the basics and also not to be afraid of greatness. some are born great, some achieve greatness, and others have greatness thrust upon them. this program by gfg provided various exposure to me, be it professional skills, getting help in personal growth, or building my confidence. also, i want to extend my gesture of thanks to divya mam, she has been a great mentor and guided me throughout, at last closing up with a saying, which goes like success takes all forms, and so do people’s viewpoints on success, so believe in yourself, count on your cause to succeed in life, you need just two things: the first one is confidence which i have build throughout with the help of this program and the second one is ignorance which you have to learn on your own.”, name: sayak mondal testimonial: “when you do not win, make sure you learn” – g. wijnaldum (liverpool player) hey folks, i’m sayak mondal, campus mantri for iiit, una. and with immense pleasure, i would like to thank the entire geeksforgeeks community for helping me to achieve the feat of the campus mantri for the month of january. i feel humbled by this achievement, as well as proud of the fact that i am the face of this well-renowned community in my college. being in this community for nearly a year, i have observed the changes it has brought in me, be it in the form of building connections, improving technical skills, or in the form of various opportunities, just being in this community, and working with worthy colleagues from different colleges across the country has definitely refined my personality. a big thanks to my mentors, divya ma’am, sai sir, and last but not the least, devanshu sir. growth must never stop, people will say that you’ve changed, remember that this change is called evolution. in the words of muhammad ali, “a man who views the world the same at 50 as he did at 20 has wasted 30 years of his life.”, name: shivam kumar testimonial: “the greatest glory in living lies not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall. -nelson mandela hi there, i am shivam kumar campus mantri of kalinga institute of industrial technology (kiit), bhubaneshwar, and with great honor, i would like to thank the entire team of geeksforgeeks for selecting me as the campus mantri of the month. it feels immense pleasure and makes me proud when i introduce myself as the face of the geeksforgeeks in my college. i have learned a lot on this journey, and i can honestly say it was extremely beneficial. i had the opportunity to work with experienced teammates, which aided in the development of my strong connections throughout india as well as the enhancement of my leadership, networking, and programming skills, all of which will undoubtedly shape my career. the experience of being a campus mantri has been incredible. being a part of the gfg family has always aided my overall development in terms of both hard and soft skills. i would like to thank devanshu sir, divya ma’am, and sai sir for constantly guiding me.”, name: satyaprakash sahoo testimonial: ““you either win, or you learn. lose those who lose their spirits.” greetings everyone! this is satyaprakash sahoo, geeksforgeeks campus mantri at international institute of information technology, bhubaneshwar (iiit-bh), 2021-22. the journey with gfg has been about 6 months now, and it is indeed quite exhilarating and challenging. it was in the early months of my first year, when i got selected for this position. i was very excited to be working with geeksforgeeks, but at the same time equally nervous for such a first in lifetime experience. had not been the warm guidance of my seniors and my batchmates’ generous support; i could not imagine if i could have been such an effective part of the gfg culture at the college. the mentors and superiors at gfg who took us onboard, always have been very friendly and supportive. never have they made me or anybody in our team feel under pressure. they understood us at a professional and personal level and made the work atmosphere light and cheerful. the campus mantri team is an unmatchable source of inspiration, knowledge and support. i thank all of them for such a great experience. being an official representative of such a reputed firm, i was recognized, not just at the college but with my friends and also at other institutes. as a result of new challenges; exploring, and learning new social and technical skills became a requirement. the more i pushed my limits, the better my skills and social relations became. i am a proud member of the geeks community, and this journey certainly is a silver streak in my life. being helpful to others is the highest level of satisfaction and this program has helped me earn that. thank you for your attention. i would end with a line from my dairy: all i can, is to give my best and believe in my karma.”, name: adarsh navneet sinha testimonial: “ever tried. ever failed. no matter. try again. fail again. fail better – samuel beckett hey geeks! this is adarsh navneet sinha, campus mantri at the indore institute of science and technology. let me thank geeksforgeeks not only for selecting me as the campus mantri of the month but especially for teaching and guiding me in developing my soft skills and marketing skills along with technical skills. it won’t be wrong if i say that working as campus mantri in gfg has helped me in various aspects of life. gfg was always there to support me whenever i needed any sort of help or assistance. even connecting to peers all over the country was an amazing experience, i learned a lot from them as well. the best part of gfg is that along with making my strength stronger they have helped me work on my weaknesses and the areas i was always afraid of. i am sure that there is a lot left for learning and an exciting journey excited about being a campus mantri. i also got to know that even after the tenure gets over they are always there for support. i recommend to each and everyone that if you have a chance to be a campus mantri, don’t miss it, it can have a great positive impact on your life. thanking my mentors and the entire gfg team for being there for the entire support, motivation, and guiding me to be better myself. last but not the least, thanks for providing me an opportunity to express my feelings, being campus mantri of the month. it was a great journey, from dreaming of being to be the campus mantri of the month to achieving it. i would like to terminate my testimonial with my favorite quote:- success isn’t about great work. it’s about consistency. consistent hard work leads to success. greatness will come. -dwayne johnson”, name: parv agarwal testimonial: ” learning never exhausts the mind – leonardo da vinci bonjour à tous(hello everyone!), myself parv agarwal, campus mantri at the lnmiit jaipur, firstly i’m grateful to get a chance to be selected as a campus mantri of the month. it’s a life-changing journey for me working inside gfg as a campus mantri, it’s a journey with so much to learn and to explore. gfg always backed me up whenever i needed his assistance. the community is so cheerful and i loved to be a part of it. the opportunities that gfg provides to us are great, under this program, i got a chance to enhance my soft-spoken skills, and being a face of gfg inside my campus made me a better person in terms of leadership and team work. the overall experience inside gfg is great, i get to learn a lot from my mentors and the working culture is great. i can proudly say that i’m grateful to be a part of the gfg family. it’s a lifelong journey filled with joy, learning, and full of knowledge; i would love to carry the torch and will always try my best to help my community to grow and to excel. i’m grateful as well as thankful to my mentors and my fellow friends for always motivating me and guiding me for good. thanks, gfg for giving me the opportunity to express and give a stage to my words. with one quote i wanna end my testimonial:- “never stop learning because life never stops teaching”, name: bhavya patel testimonial: “hello everyone bhavya here, campus mantri at government engineering college, rajkot!! to begin with, thanks to geekforgeeks for allocating me a respectful tag of a campus mantri and giving me a great opportunity. it was a great experience to be a part of this wonderful gfg community and i got to learn a lot during duration of my internship. i was being constantly encouraged and motivated by the mentors throughout the whole journey and i feel privileged to be with them. i really feel grateful and cheers!!! for this fantabulous community.”, name: parv agarwal testimonial: “knowledge is power.” interacting with the coding superiors of our college, it feels immense pleasure to introduce myself as the face of the famous geeksforgeeks campus mantri in front of my mates. i am honoured to be a part of gfg. it always wondered me, especially amidst this pandemic, it provides various resources to the student community, which is much required now than ever. i always felt welcomed here. working here has been a great pleasure for me. i have learned and obtained a lot working with gfg., name: tejaswi testimonial: hello, everyone! tejaswi here, campus mantri at iit jammu. i’d like to express my gratitude to the gfg team for selecting me as campus mantri of the month. i learned a lot on this journey, and i can honestly say it was extremely beneficial. i had the opportunity to work with experienced teammates, which aided in the development of my strong connections throughout india as well as the enhancement of my leadership, networking, and programming skills, all of which will undoubtedly shape my career. the experience of being a campus mantri has been incredible. being a part of the gfg family has always aided my overall development in terms of both hard and soft skills. finally, i’d like to express my heartfelt appreciation to the gfg family and all of the mentors who have always supported and guided me along the way. last but not least, i’d like to thank gfg for awarding me “campus mantri of the month” for may., name: dharini grover testimonial: my journey as a campus mantri and as a student chapter lead has been mindblowing. leading my student chapter at srm institute of science and technology inculcated within me the qualities of leadership, brotherhood and teamwork. i and my core team members were the first ones who founded a student chapter in my college in july 2019, we encouraged everyone in the community to form their own student chapter. i got the privilege to upbeat the tech culture in my college by organizing various events such as coding competitions, hackathons, and some great brown bag webinars, etc. gfg family has been very supportive and friendly and it’s the best organization one could ever work with., name: divya shukla testimonial: hey there! i got the opportunity to lead the gfg student chapter lead in my college srmgpc lucknow, build coding culture and conduct various events in association with geeksforgeeks. the experience that i have is amazing and i have developed my coding and interpersonal skills in this time duration.it has been 4 months with geeksforgeeks and the event support and the guidance that they provide to their student chapters is amazing. thank you geeksforgeeks for giving me this awesome opportunity., name: shubhadarshie nanda testimonial: hey there! i am the campus mantri of iiit bhubaneswar and being a part of the gfg family has been remarkable. i got the opportunity to lead the gfg student chapter of our campus, build a professional network & conduct various events in association with gfg. being a technical content writer intern at gfg also helped me build my programming skills. gfg is the one of the best platforms for geeks and being a part of that family is one of the best things in my journey. thank you gfg team for selecting me as campus geek of the month., name: devang sharma testimonial: getting an opportunity to be an gfg campus mantri was one of the few good things that happened to me in 2020. i haven’t seen any other campus ambassador program which values their ambassadors as gfg does. i got so many new experiences being a part of gfg like organising events, coordinating with people and a lot more. also in this program the community we make is a collection of like minded people from the nation as all of the mantris are from cs / it background hence i got so many new contacts interacting with other mantris and organising events., name: rupesh upadhyay testimonial: hi, myself rupesh upadhyay, the geeksforgeeks, campus mantri of the month from nit jamshedpur, 2020. i’m very thankful to gfg for acknowledging me with this title. through this journey, i learned a lot and i can say it was truly fruitful. i got the opportunity to work with experienced teammates it helped me in building my strong connection all over india and helped me to enhance my leadership skills, networking, and programming skills which is definitely going to shape my carrier. and at last but not least, thank you gfg for awarding me the ” geek of the month ” title of december month., name: krish murarka testimonial: hi there, i am krish murarka campus mantri of kalinga institute of industrial technology (kiit), bhubaneshwar, and with great honor, i would like to thank the entire team of geeksforgeeks for selecting me as the campus mantri of the month. the whole campaign has been awesome wherein i got the perfect platform to learn, share, and connect with different peoples, which eventually boosted my soft skills. i would like to thank devanshu sir and ayushmaan sir for constantly guiding me., name: aditya thakur testimonial: hey there! i am the campus mantri of srm university, delhi ncr, sonepat and it is a great privilege to be chosen as the campus mantri of the month. my journey so far with geeksforgeeks has been great. i got to network with talented leaders across gfg student chapters, work on my communication and other soft skills while working to build a community of like-minded students within my college., october was also the month geeksforgeeks student chapters under the able guidance of devanshu sir, karan sir, and daksh jain organized the game of source which was a 10-day long open-source event. i got to work as the sponsorship lead for the event which was a huge learning opportunity in itself. i’d like to thank the geeksforgeeks family and everyone who has helped me learn and grow, name: avs aditya vardhan testimonial: hi, myself avs aditya vardhan geeksforgeeks, campus mantri for indian institute of information technology (iiit) kottayam would like to thank the geeksforgeeks family for this appreciation. geeksforgeeks gave me a wonderful opportunity to serve the student community and helped me to enhance my leadership skills, networking & programming skills which shaped my career. i feel joyful in sharing and improving the technical knowledge among students on campus through events paving the best path to achieve success. i believe success is not a destination success is a journey. in this amazing journey, i would like to thank devanshu sir, karan bhargav sir for good guidance., name: nehal sharma testimonial: hey peeps! i am nehal sharma, campus mantri at guru nanak dev university, jalandhar campus. i would love to thank the gfg team for choosing me as campus mantri of the month. the journey of being campus mantri has been remarkable. being a part of the gfg family always encouraged my overall growth in terms of both hard skills and soft skills. also, i feel privileged that i got the opportunity to promote tech culture at my campus by conducting various tech-events in association with gfg. eventually, i want to express my sincere gratitude to the gfg family and all the mentors who always fostered me and guided me throughout the journey., name: chirag jain testimonial: hey! i’m the campus mantri of swami keshvanand institute of technology management and gramothan (skit), jaipur, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank the gfg team and family for this appreciation. geeksforgeeks always works as a catalyst for students to perform well in the corporate world so it is a pleasure to be in this family. geeksforgeeks has helped me in endorsing my marketing skills. during this period, the gfg team had always encouraged me to learn and improve my skills including programming, communication, building connections, and marketing. i would like to thank specially to devanshu sir and ayushmaan sir from gfg team for guidance., name: abhishek raj permani testimonial: being a part of such a coding family like geeks for geeks is really an awesome experience. here i meet some awesome people from different parts of india, working in various fields like web development, app development, machine learning, and the internet of things. during my interacting period from these people, i kept on learning new things and also implementing them on my current projects. i have also enrolled myself in data structure course of geeks for geeks, it’s an awesome course to learn data structure and algorithm. during this time i have organized many events in collaboration with geeks for geeks in my college and support from geeks for geeks side is been great. as a campus ambassador of geeks for geeks, i learned many new skills like marketing and organizing events. i also developed an interest in competitive programming after interacting with them. it was the time, after which i started working on my competitive programming skills. i used to code in c++ as a competitive programmer. after understanding the basic data structure and algorithm, i gained confidence and finally got selected for the summer internship 2020 at samsung research institute bangalore (srib). i gave my credit for success in all fields to geeks for geeks family and will always be thankful to them. at last, i am very thankful to geeks for geeks by awarding me “geek of the month” title of october month., name: shubhangi gupta testimonial: i found out about geeksforgeeks in my first year and that, it covered most of the engineering syllabus. there were last-minute notes for revision! the following year i participated in sudo placement and learned some new concepts. i can across the campus ambassador program and applied! i wanted to help students learn to code and get better at it. what i liked about geeksforgeeks was the well-written editorial, it offers a simple solution and then an optimized one, which makes learning easier. moreover, the platform has an active community of contributors! you can add a comment and get the answer in a few hours, not by the moderators but by the community 🙂 under the geeksforgeeks igdtuw chapter, more than 100 women engineers are learning to code and i am really happy to help them in their journey., name: vishruth khare testimonial: hi! i am the campus ambassador from delhi technological university and i would like to take this opportunity to thank the geeksforgeeks team for acknowledging me and my efforts. it has been a wonderful association with them. my task as a ca involves maintaining the facebook page of gfg-dtu, taking up the queries of students, conducting workshops and coding contests and, pitching the courses offered by geeksforgeeks to students who are unaware about them. geeksforgeeks community is known for its massive reach among the students and the completeness it offers to preparation and by being a part of this system, i hope to encourage more students into coding so that they cherish the beauty of this platform. geekforgeeks act as a perfect catalyst for students stepping into the corporate world, out of their comfort zone. it offers vast knowledge sources under varied domains which makes learning a new skill more structured and accessible. i would like to thank parikshit hooda (gfg-dtu ca 2018) for helping me getting accustomed to the gfg interface and the challenges it offers. also, my sincere gratitude to ayushman sir and mayank sir from geeks team for helping me clear my academic as well as moral doubts while i was getting acquainted with the program. all in all, a great experience and i hope to contribute more to the forum for the benefit of its users. cheers! happy coding 🙂, name: dev aryan shrivastava testimonial: i am the campus ambassador from srm university, chennai. i am a technical member of dsc srm powered by google developers. thanks, gfg for giving this title. being a campus ambassador my task includes maintaining the facebook, instagram page. clarifying the doubts of the students within the campus also leading geeks for geeks campus club with efficient team members, organizing seminars, workshops, and collaborating with different clubs on campus, to increase the outreach of geeks for geeks so that people can connect more and more with gfg. being a campus ambassador i got a platform to showcase my leadership skills. i have also enhanced my skills using various sources of geeks for geeks. i would like to thank gfg for always supporting students to build their careers. i will keep contributing to gfg in the future too., name: karan bhargav testimonial: hi i am karan bhargav pursuing bachelor of engineering in computer science from chandigarh university and i want to thank the geeksforgeeks community for honoring me with this prestigious title. my tasks include(d) maintaining the facebook page of geeksforgeeks-cu, answering the queries that the students of my university have, making more and more people contribute to geeksforgeeks and representing my university in the geeksforgeeks campus ambassadors community. also, being a campus ambassador, i was encouraged to learn many new things during this tenure. i used to get certain tasks such as promoting free courses like sudo placement, fork c++, fork java, etc. from our assigned mentor and these tasks enhanced our leadership qualities and communication skills. i hope other people benefitted from the courses we promoted. these courses were beneficial for me a lot as i got a lot of experience from these and yeah these were much encouraging one during my projects. so at last, i would like to thanks gfg for providing me such a great opportunity. i will keep contributing to geeksforgeeks in the future hoping it will help others in increasing their knowledge., name: keshav gupta testimonial: hi, i have been practicing questions on geeksforgeeks from the last 2 years and the website has amazing concepts and all the content needed by a programmer. geeksforgeeks is a wonderful platform where one can find various programming challenges to practice thoroughly. i also did my summer internship at gfg and it was a fun loving experience for me. also, being a campus ambassador, i was encouraged to learn many new things during this tenure. i used to get certain tasks such as promoting free courses like sudo placement, fork c++, fork java, etc. from our assigned mentor and these tasks enhanced our leadership qualities and communication skills. i hope other people benefitted from the courses we promoted. these courses were beneficial for me a lot as i got a lot of experience from these and yeah these were much encouraging one during my projects. so at last, i would like to thanks gfg for providing me such a great opportunity., name: diksha jain testimonial: thanks a lot geeksforgeeks for awarding me with this prestigious title. i have always been passionate about sharing knowledge and helping others. i encouraged many students to actively participate in coding and learn other things to get a plethora of opportunities. i also motivated myself for the improvement of my programming skills too. it also helped me in improving my leadership skills and personality, along with my programming skills. i will keep contributing to geeksforgeeks in the future hoping it will help others in increasing their knowledge. once again, thanks for this amazing title: “campus geek of the month”., name: parikshit lamba testimonial: i am the campus ambassador from delhi technological university. my tasks include(d) maintaining the facebook page of geeksforgeeks-dtu, answering the queries that the students of my university or otherwise have, making more and more people contribute to geeksforgeeks(although this happened organically without any directed effort due to active presence that i tried to maintain), representing my university in the geeksforgeeks campus ambassadors community. i got to know about the geeksforgeeks article contributions, the campus ambassador program and the geek of the month accolade from the previous year campus ambassador(nikhil kumar singh) from my university. i noticed that there were not that many article on the blockchain topic. so, i decided to write majorly in that domain. everything went pretty well. thanks., name: palak baghla testimonial: since may 2018 i have been a part of the campus ambassador program at geeksforgeeks. and i have always been trying to contribute my best for the organization. i received goodies from geeksforgeeks 2 times for performing the tasks properly. geeksforgeeks knows well how to appraise the cas for their performance. this has been a huge platform for me to create a good network for myself. an appraisal of “geek of the month” is really a huge encouragement & it not only boosts our commitment towards the organization but also encourage us to work with more commitment. even i myself take up courses from geeksforgeeks and participate in contests held by them. they provide a very helpful platform for the students to learn and boost up their skills. thank you so much to complete team of geeksforgeeks!, , name: ipsita chakraborty, testimonial: i would like to take this opportunity to thank the geeksforgeeks team for acknowledging me and my efforts. it has been a wonderful experience so long in the campus ambassador program. geeksforgeeks has always been a saviour throughout, be it last moment studies for exams, learning competetive coding or any new language or some algorithm., being able to work with geeksforgeeks is the utmost pleasure for any computer science student and i am glad to serve the geeksforgeeks team as a campus ambassador. being a part of this program, i got to communicate with so many students in my college having keen interest in coding. they were made aware of the different opportunities that geeksforgeeks is providing like sudo placement, fork java, fork cpp, etc. there have also been rewards for the top performers to keep them motivated and for the campus ambassadors as well to keep up the good work. apart from that we have got assistance from the geeksforgeeks team in conducting coding contests in the college., all in all, the entire team is doing great work involving students from colleges across the country and reaching out to each and every individual, imparting valuable knowledge. to all the students out there, keep learning, keep growing. happy coding ! 😊, writing code in comment? please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.][table of contents, table of contents, campus geek of the month, campus geek of the month program, campus geek of the month – april 2022, campus geek of the month – march 2022, campus geek of the month – february 2022, campus geek of the month – january 2022, campus geek of the month – december 2021, campus geek of the month – november 2021, campus geek of the month – october 2021, campus geek of the month – september 2021, campus geek of the month – august 2021, campus geek of the month – july 2021, campus geek of the month – may 2021, campus geek of the month – april 2021, campus geek of the month – march 2021, campus geek of the month – february 2021, campus geek of the month – january 2021, campus geek of the month – december 2020, campus geek of the month – november 2020, campus geek of the month – october 2020, campus geek of the month – september 2020, campus geek of the month – august 2020, campus geek of the month – july 2020, campus geek of the month – october 2019, campus geek of the month – september 2019, campus geek of the month – august 2019, campus geek of the month – july 2019, campus geek of the month – april 2019, campus geek of the month – march 2019, campus geek of the month – february 2019, campus geek of the month – january 2019, campus geek of the month – december 2018, campus geek of the month – november 2018, , start your coding journey now!]campus geek of the month - geeksforgeeks[campus geek of the month program, how can i become “campus geek of the month”?, campus geek of the month – april 2022, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – march 2022, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – february 2022, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – january 2022, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – december 2021, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – november 2021, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – october 2021, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – september 2021, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – august 2021, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – july 2021, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – may 2021, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – april 2021, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – march 2021, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – february 2021, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – january 2021, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – december 2020, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – november 2020, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – october 2020, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – september 2020, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – august 2020, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – july 2020, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – october 2019, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – september 2019, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – august 2019, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – july 2019, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – april 2019, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – march 2019, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – february 2019, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – january 2019, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – december 2018, name, testimonial:, campus geek of the month – november 2018, name, testimonial][courses for working professionals live dsa live classes system design java backend development full stack live explore more self-paced dsa- self paced sde theory must-do coding questions explore more for students live competitive programming data structures with c++ data science explore more self-paced dsa- self paced cip java / python / c++ explore more school courses school guide python programming learn to make apps explore more all courses, for working professionals live dsa live classes system design java backend development full stack live explore more self-paced dsa- self paced sde theory must-do coding questions explore more, live dsa live classes system design java backend development full stack live explore more, dsa live classes, system design, java backend development, full stack live, explore more, self-paced dsa- self paced sde theory must-do coding questions explore more, dsa- self paced, sde theory, must-do coding questions, explore more, for students live competitive programming data structures with c++ data science explore more self-paced dsa- self paced cip java / python / c++ explore more, live competitive programming data structures with c++ data science explore more, competitive programming, data structures with c++, data science, explore more, self-paced dsa- self paced cip java / python / c++ explore more, dsa- self paced, cip, java / python / c++, explore more, school courses school guide python programming learn to make apps explore more, school guide, python programming, learn to make apps, explore more, all courses, tutorials practice ds & algo. must do questions dsa topic-wise dsa company-wise algorithms analysis of algorithms asymptotic analysis worst, average and best cases asymptotic notations little o and little omega notations lower and upper bound theory analysis of loops solving recurrences amortized analysis what does 'space complexity' mean ? pseudo-polynomial algorithms polynomial time approximation scheme a time complexity question searching algorithms sorting algorithms graph algorithms pattern searching geometric algorithms mathematical bitwise algorithms randomized algorithms greedy algorithms dynamic programming divide and conquer backtracking branch and bound all algorithms data structures arrays linked list stack queue binary tree binary search tree heap hashing graph advanced data structure matrix strings all data structures interview corner company preparation top topics practice company questions interview experiences experienced interviews internship interviews competititve programming design patterns system design tutorial multiple choice quizzes languages c c++ java python c# javascript jquery sql php scala perl go language html css kotlin ml & data science machine learning data science cs subjects mathematics operating system dbms computer networks computer organization and architecture theory of computation compiler design digital logic software engineering gate gate computer science notes last minute notes gate cs solved papers gate cs original papers and official keys gate 2021 dates gate cs 2021 syllabus important topics for gate cs web technologies html css javascript angularjs reactjs nodejs bootstrap jquery php software designs software design patterns system design tutorial school learning school programming mathematics number system algebra trigonometry statistics probability geometry mensuration calculus maths notes (class 8-12) class 8 notes class 9 notes class 10 notes class 11 notes class 12 notes ncert solutions class 8 maths solution class 9 maths solution class 10 maths solution class 11 maths solution class 12 maths solution rd sharma solutions class 8 maths solution class 9 maths solution class 10 maths solution class 11 maths solution class 12 maths solution physics notes (class 8-11) class 8 notes class 9 notes class 10 notes class 11 notes cs exams/psus isro isro cs original papers and official keys isro cs solved papers isro cs syllabus for scientist/engineer exam ugc net ugc net cs notes paper ii ugc net cs notes paper iii ugc net cs solved papers student campus ambassador program school ambassador program project geek of the month campus geek of the month placement course competititve programming testimonials student chapter geek on the top internship careers, practice ds & algo. must do questions dsa topic-wise dsa company-wise, must do questions, dsa topic-wise, dsa company-wise, algorithms analysis of algorithms asymptotic analysis worst, average and best cases asymptotic notations little o and little omega notations lower and upper bound theory analysis of loops solving recurrences amortized analysis what does 'space complexity' mean ? pseudo-polynomial algorithms polynomial time approximation scheme a time complexity question searching algorithms sorting algorithms graph algorithms pattern searching geometric algorithms mathematical bitwise algorithms randomized algorithms greedy algorithms dynamic programming divide and conquer backtracking branch and bound all algorithms, analysis of algorithms asymptotic analysis worst, average and best cases asymptotic notations little o and little omega notations lower and upper bound theory analysis of loops solving recurrences amortized analysis what does 'space complexity' mean ? pseudo-polynomial algorithms polynomial time approximation scheme a time complexity question, asymptotic analysis, worst, average and best cases, asymptotic notations, little o and little omega notations, lower and upper bound theory, analysis of loops, solving recurrences, amortized analysis, what does 'space complexity' mean ?, pseudo-polynomial algorithms, polynomial time approximation scheme, a time complexity question, searching algorithms, sorting algorithms, graph algorithms, pattern searching, geometric algorithms, mathematical, bitwise algorithms, randomized algorithms, greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, divide and conquer, backtracking, branch and bound, all algorithms, data structures arrays linked list stack queue binary tree binary search tree heap hashing graph advanced data structure matrix strings all data structures, arrays, linked list, stack, queue, binary tree, binary search tree, heap, hashing, graph, advanced data structure, matrix, strings, all data structures, interview corner company preparation top topics practice company questions interview experiences experienced interviews internship interviews competititve programming design patterns system design tutorial multiple choice quizzes, company preparation, top topics, practice company questions, interview experiences, experienced interviews, internship interviews, competititve programming, design patterns, system design tutorial, multiple choice quizzes, languages c c++ java python c# javascript jquery sql php scala perl go language html css kotlin, c, c++, java, python, c#, javascript, jquery, sql, php, scala, perl, go language, html, css, kotlin, ml & data science machine learning data science, machine learning, data science, cs subjects mathematics operating system dbms computer networks computer organization and architecture theory of computation compiler design digital logic software engineering, mathematics, operating system, dbms, computer networks, computer organization and architecture, theory of computation, compiler design, digital logic, software engineering, gate gate computer science notes last minute notes gate cs solved papers gate cs original papers and official keys gate 2021 dates gate cs 2021 syllabus important topics for gate cs, gate computer science notes, last minute notes, gate cs solved papers, gate cs original papers and official keys, gate 2021 dates, gate cs 2021 syllabus, important topics for gate cs, web technologies html css javascript angularjs reactjs nodejs bootstrap jquery php, html, css, javascript, angularjs, reactjs, nodejs, bootstrap, jquery, php, software designs software design patterns system design tutorial, software design patterns, system design tutorial, school learning school programming mathematics number system algebra trigonometry statistics probability geometry mensuration calculus maths notes (class 8-12) class 8 notes class 9 notes class 10 notes class 11 notes class 12 notes ncert solutions class 8 maths solution class 9 maths solution class 10 maths solution class 11 maths solution class 12 maths solution rd sharma solutions class 8 maths solution class 9 maths solution class 10 maths solution class 11 maths solution class 12 maths solution physics notes (class 8-11) class 8 notes class 9 notes class 10 notes class 11 notes, school programming, mathematics number system algebra trigonometry statistics probability geometry mensuration calculus, number system, algebra, trigonometry, statistics, probability, geometry, mensuration, calculus, maths notes (class 8-12) class 8 notes class 9 notes class 10 notes class 11 notes class 12 notes, class 8 notes, class 9 notes, class 10 notes, class 11 notes, class 12 notes, ncert solutions class 8 maths solution class 9 maths solution class 10 maths solution class 11 maths solution class 12 maths solution, class 8 maths solution, class 9 maths solution, class 10 maths solution, class 11 maths solution, class 12 maths solution, rd sharma solutions class 8 maths solution class 9 maths solution class 10 maths solution class 11 maths solution class 12 maths solution, class 8 maths solution, class 9 maths solution, class 10 maths solution, class 11 maths solution, class 12 maths solution, physics notes (class 8-11) class 8 notes class 9 notes class 10 notes class 11 notes, class 8 notes, class 9 notes, class 10 notes, class 11 notes, cs exams/psus isro isro cs original papers and official keys isro cs solved papers isro cs syllabus for scientist/engineer exam ugc net ugc net cs notes paper ii ugc net cs notes paper iii ugc net cs solved papers, isro isro cs original papers and official keys isro cs solved papers isro cs syllabus for scientist/engineer exam, isro cs original papers and official keys, isro cs solved papers, isro cs syllabus for scientist/engineer exam, ugc net ugc net cs notes paper ii ugc net cs notes paper iii ugc net cs solved papers, ugc net cs notes paper ii, ugc net cs notes paper iii, ugc net cs solved papers, student campus ambassador program school ambassador program project geek of the month campus geek of the month placement course competititve programming testimonials student chapter geek on the top internship careers, campus ambassador program, school ambassador program, project, geek of the month, campus geek of the month, placement course, competititve programming, testimonials, student chapter, geek on the top, internship, careers, jobs apply for jobs post a job job-a-thon, apply for jobs, post a job, job-a-thon, events, , write come write articles for us and get featured practice learn and code with the best industry experts premium get access to ad-free content, doubt assistance and more! jobs come and find your dream job with us geeks digest quizzes geeks campus gblog articles ide campus mantri, geeks digest, quizzes, geeks campus, gblog articles, ide, campus mantri, , , home, saved videos, courses, , gblog, puzzles, what's new ?, data structures, algorithms, interview preparation, topic-wise practice, c++, java, python, competitive programming, machine learning, html, sde sheet, puzzles, gfg school, projects, write articles, pick topics to write, guidelines to write, get technical writing internship, write an interview experience, guidelines to write, interview preparation for software developers, must coding questions - company-wise, must do coding questions - topic-wise, company-wise practice problems, company preparation, competitive programming, software design-patterns, company-wise interview experience, experienced - interview experiences, internship - interview experiences, problem of the day, topic-wise practice, subjective problems, difficulty level - school, difficulty level - basic, difficulty level - easy, difficulty level - medium, difficulty level - hard, leaderboard !!, explore more..., arrays, linked list, stack, queue, binary tree, binary search tree, heap, hashing, graph, advance data structures, matrix, string, all data structures, analysis of algorithms, searching algorithms, sorting algorithms, pattern searching, geometric algorithms, mathematical algorithms, randomized algorithms, greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, divide & conquer, backtracking, branch & bound, all algorithms, c, c++, java, python, c#, go lang, sql, php, scala, perl, kotlin, html, css, javascript, jquery, php, bootstrap, angularjs, reactjs, nodejs, p5.js, lodash.js, jqwidget, jquery-ui, wordpress, tailwind css, json, jquery mobile, collect.js, pure css, bulma, foundation, materialize css, semantic-ui, typescript, svg, express.js, ant design, react design, tensorflow.js, operating systems, dbms, computer network, computer organization & architecture, toc, compiler design, digital elec. & logic design, software engineering, engineering mathematics, machine learning introduction, data preprocessing, supervised learning, unsupervised learning, reinforcement learning, dimensionality reduction, natural language processing, neural networks, ml – applications, python tutorial, django tutorial, pandas tutorial, kivy tutorial, tkinter tutorial, opencv tutorial, selenium tutorial, gate cs notes, gate corner, previous year gate papers, last minute notes (lmns), important topic - gate 2021, gate 2021 course, ugc net notes - paper ii, ugc net notes - paper iii, ugc net solved papers, isro cs solved papers, isro official keys, isro cse syllabus, c quiz, c++ quiz, java quiz, python quiz, html quiz, css quiz, javascript quiz, data structures quiz, algorithms quiz, topic-wise mcqs, campus ambassador program, geek of the month, geek on the top, campus geek of the month, technical scripter event, computer science projects, school programming, number system & arithmetic, algebra, trigonomitry, statistics, probability, geometry, mensuration, calculus, class 8 physics notes, class 9 physics notes, class 10 physics notes, class 11 physcis notes, class 8 chemistry notes, class 9 chemistry notes, class 10 chemistry, write articles, pick topics to write, guidelines to write, get technical writing internship, write an interview experience, guidelines to write, interview preparation for software developers, must coding questions - company-wise, must do coding questions - topic-wise, company-wise practice problems, company preparation, competitive programming, software design-patterns, company-wise interview experience, experienced - interview experiences, internship - interview experiences, problem of the day, topic-wise practice, subjective problems, difficulty level - school, difficulty level - basic, difficulty level - easy, difficulty level - medium, difficulty level - hard, leaderboard !!, explore more..., arrays, linked list, stack, queue, binary tree, binary search tree, heap, hashing, graph, advance data structures, matrix, string, all data structures, analysis of algorithms, searching algorithms, sorting algorithms, pattern searching, geometric algorithms, mathematical algorithms, randomized algorithms, greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, divide & conquer, backtracking, branch & bound, all algorithms, c, c++, java, python, c#, go lang, sql, php, scala, perl, kotlin, html, css, javascript, jquery, php, bootstrap, angularjs, reactjs, nodejs, p5.js, lodash.js, jqwidget, jquery-ui, wordpress, tailwind css, json, jquery mobile, collect.js, pure css, bulma, foundation, materialize css, semantic-ui, typescript, svg, express.js, ant design, react design, tensorflow.js, operating systems, dbms, computer network, computer organization & architecture, toc, compiler design, digital elec. & logic design, software engineering, engineering mathematics, machine learning introduction, data preprocessing, supervised learning, unsupervised learning, reinforcement learning, dimensionality reduction, natural language processing, neural networks, ml – applications, python tutorial, django tutorial, pandas tutorial, kivy tutorial, tkinter tutorial, opencv tutorial, selenium tutorial, gate cs notes, gate corner, previous year gate papers, last minute notes (lmns), important topic - gate 2021, gate 2021 course, ugc net notes - paper ii, ugc net notes - paper iii, ugc net solved papers, isro cs solved papers, isro official keys, isro cse syllabus, c quiz, c++ quiz, java quiz, python quiz, html quiz, css quiz, javascript quiz, data structures quiz, algorithms quiz, topic-wise mcqs, campus ambassador program, geek of the month, geek on the top, campus geek of the month, technical scripter event, computer science projects, school programming, number system & arithmetic, algebra, trigonomitry, statistics, probability, geometry, mensuration, calculus, class 8 physics notes, class 9 physics notes, class 10 physics notes, class 11 physcis notes, class 8 chemistry notes, class 9 chemistry notes, class 10 chemistry, last updated : 02 may, 2022, must do coding questions for product based companies, difference between var, let and const keywords in javascript, array of objects in c++ with examples, how to replace values in column based on condition in pandas?, how to fix: keyerror in pandas, c program to read contents of whole file, how to download and install spring tool suite (spring tools 4 for eclipse) ide?, how to replace values in a list in python?, how to select data between two dates and times in sql server?, spring - rest controller, company, about us, careers, in media, contact us, privacy policy, copyright policy, learn, algorithms, data structures, sde cheat sheet, machine learning, cs subjects, video tutorials, news, top news, technology, work & career, business, finance, lifestyle, languages, python, java, cpp, golang, c#, sql, web development, web tutorials, django tutorial, html, css, javascript, bootstrap, contribute, write an article, improve an article, pick topics to write, write interview experience, internships, video internship]