[whether you are holding a meeting or attending a meeting, it is imporant that you understand key english phrases and expressions related to meetings. a successful meeting has no surprises. with proper preparation and careful organization, a meeting can run smoothly. the most typical complaint about meetings is that they run too long. meetings that run longer than necessary can be very costly to a company or business. as the famous business expression says: time is money. setting goals and time limits, keeping to the agenda, and knowing how to refocus, are key components of an effective meeting. this may sound simple in your own native language, but it is a little trickier when you or the participants do not speak fluent english. these pages will help you hold or attend a meeting with success. review the vocabulary, read through the lessons, and then check your understanding., the following pages will be based on the meeting of a fictional company called paris tours. the owner of the small tour company is pierre. he has ten employees, including four supervisors, kana and thomas (guides), nolan (driver), and jane (receptionist). these four supervisors will be called to a meeting to discuss the upcoming tourist season. follow through the pages to watch how pierre prepares for and holds the meeting, and how his staff participate., meetings vocabulary learn the words you'll need when attending or holding meetings in english, meetings vocabulary quiz test what you learned about meetings vocabulary, preparing for a meeting calling a meeting, writing an agenda, allocating roles, opening a meeting small talk, welcome, roll call/apologies, objectives, following the agenda sticking to the topic, closing a meeting wrapping it all up, meetings skills test check your understanding of the english meetings skills you learned, covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][meetings, scenario, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]meetings | business english | englishclub[meetings vocabulary, meetings vocabulary quiz, preparing for a meeting, opening a meeting, following the agenda, closing a meeting, meetings skills test][vocabulary, quiz, preparation, opening, agenda, closing, test, phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]