[the verb be is a very special verb in english. it is the most common verb of all verbs. after the word "the", it is the most common word in english. it does not obey most of the rules that apply to all other verbs. it has 8 forms, while all other verbs have only 3, 4 or 5. and (like "have" and "do") it can be both a main verb and an auxiliary verb. be really is "top dog", as jonathan taylor discovers in his be verb rock star song below., can you count the be verbs in this song?, lyrics:, i'm not a big word but i'm the be verb i've got a big job i guess i am top dog for such a small word i'm a really big word i guess that makes me a rock star were you listening when i was singing? is there a be verb in my song? i am singing and you are listening and we're all being superstars rock on! not a big word i am the be verb i've got a big job i guess i am top dog for such a small word i'm such a big word i guess that makes me a rock star where is my guitar? were you listening when i was singing? is there a be verb in my song? rock on! i am singing and you are listening and we're all being superstars rock on!, covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][be verb rock star song, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]be verb rock star song | grammar | englishclub[be, be, be][phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]