[the alphabet is the set of 26 letters (from a to z) that we use to represent english in writing:, it is very important to understand that the letters of the alphabet do not always represent the same sounds of english., this page is about how we pronounce the letters of the alphabet when we "say the alphabet (abc...)". in our writing section you can learn more about how we write the letters of the alphabet., below, you can listen to how we say the letters of the alphabet. remember, this is just for how we say the name of each letter. when we use the letters in words, they often have a different sound., , listen as jonathan taylor sings the alphabet song for rockers. sing along if you like. the video has subtitles and there is a transcript below., the letters above (↑) are in normal "alphabetical order"., but the letters below (↓) are not in alphabetical order. they are in "sound order". they are grouped by sound. there are only 7 basic sounds for the whole alphabet. the letters in each column all have the same vowel sound. listen to the alphabet sounds as we read them by column:, , covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][pronouncing the alphabet 🔈, saying the alphabet 🔈, alphabet song 🔈, alphabet sounds 🔈, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]pronouncing the alphabet | pronunciation | englishclub[in writing, a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z, letters of the alphabet, sounds, pronounce the letters of the alphabet, alpha, beta, say, name, except for z, zed, zee, z, a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z, by sound][phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]