[job-a-thon, 21 may, job-a-thon 9: hiring challenge, overview, this hiring challenge will be organised by geeksforgeeks every month. the contest will take place in the 3rd or 4th week of the month. it will feature 4 to 6 organisations. details of companies and job description will be available to the candidates beforehand. freshers can participate and apply to any or all of the organisations hiring through the contests., instructions, for candidates looking to take part in job-a-thon., all freshers can apply for the hiring challenge. this includes final year students as well as recent pass-outs with 0 years of experience. , a candidate has to first register on the job-a-thon page when it’s live, and then for the job opening they're interested in. failing to do this will result in invalid participation., you can apply to any or all of the job openings that suit you best. , contest will cover questions on dsa, programming logic, logical reasoning, quantitative aptitude., entries submitted by candidates after the contest is closed will not be considered., only individual participation is allowed in jobathon., geeksforgeeks holds the right to disqualify any participant at any stage of the process if the participant is deemed to be acting fraudulently or otherwise. , in case of any dispute over rankings and leaderboard, the decision of geeksforgeeks shall be final., interview shortlisting will be done by specific companies based on their own criteria., for companies looking to be a part of job-a-thon., write to us at hire@geeksforgeeks.org and hire the best coders for your campany ! , companies need to approach us at the beginning of month, as the slots are limited and they fill up fast., the job descriptions needs to be shared at the earliest. it should be detailed, with mention of salary, location, roles and responsibilities, company website link, how many positions are they looking to fill, etc., the questions will be shared with the participating organizations beforehand., after the contest, a list of upto 30 suitable candidates will be shared with the organisation. ie- we will share the data of the top 30 candidates who performed well in the contest and registered for your company. after getting some update from your end the next batch of candidates will be shared., we're expecting regular updates from the organization (capped for 5 working days.), 21 april, job-a-thon 8: hiring challenge, 21 march, job-a-thon 7 hiring challenge, 21 february, job-a-thon 6: hiring challenge, 21 january, job-a-thon 5: hiring challenge, 21 december, job-a-thon 4 hiring challenge, 21 november, job-a-thon 3: hiring challenge, 23 october, job-a-thon 2: hiring challenge, 22 september, job-a-thon 1: hiring challenge][]job-a-thon[for candidates looking to take part in job-a-thon., for companies looking to be a part of job-a-thon.][all freshers can apply for the hiring challenge. this includes final year students as well as recent pass-outs with 0 years of experience. , a candidate has to first register on the job-a-thon page when it’s live, and then for the job opening they're interested in. failing to do this will result in invalid participation., you can apply to any or all of the job openings that suit you best. , contest will cover questions on dsa, programming logic, logical reasoning, quantitative aptitude., entries submitted by candidates after the contest is closed will not be considered., only individual participation is allowed in jobathon., geeksforgeeks holds the right to disqualify any participant at any stage of the process if the participant is deemed to be acting fraudulently or otherwise. , in case of any dispute over rankings and leaderboard, the decision of geeksforgeeks shall be final., interview shortlisting will be done by specific companies based on their own criteria., write to us at hire@geeksforgeeks.org and hire the best coders for your campany ! , companies need to approach us at the beginning of month, as the slots are limited and they fill up fast., the job descriptions needs to be shared at the earliest. it should be detailed, with mention of salary, location, roles and responsibilities, company website link, how many positions are they looking to fill, etc., the questions will be shared with the participating organizations beforehand., after the contest, a list of upto 30 suitable candidates will be shared with the organisation. ie- we will share the data of the top 30 candidates who performed well in the contest and registered for your company. after getting some update from your end the next batch of candidates will be shared., we're expecting regular updates from the organization (capped for 5 working days.)]