[coral reefs provide stunning images of a world under assault, coral reefs provide stunning images of a world under assault, popular floating restaurant jay’s sandbar food boat sinks in fort lauderdale; owner vows to rebuild after ‘total loss’, former michigan state star, orlando magic player shot to death at florida townhome, bahia mar deal needed a guy with a brass touch. enter jimmy tate., wildfires that burned more than 26,000 acres in the everglades have been contained, important african american landmarks across the country, inflation, supply issues began before biden | letters to the editor, boca raton luxury car case spawns 26 police reports and a flurry of lawsuits, wwe hall of famer accused in florida dui crash that killed 1, most read, more top stories, things to do this week: haim, miranda lambert, john mulaney, mezcal lauderdale, heat fate against 76ers seemingly hangs in the balance with kyle lowry’s hamstring strain, early exposure to lgbtq+ issues matters | opinion, medication abortions are increasing: what they are and where women get them, first look: a spin on guardians of the galaxy, no end in sight for war in ukraine as putin hails victory day, workers grapple with new stresses as they return to office, don’t miss these, south florida’s real estate boom: see updated data on home prices, sales and rent, dolphins q&a: is christian wilkins next in line for multi-year extension?, florida restaurant inspections: search our database for recent health code violations, essential south florida: our email newsletter will help you get the most out of living here, what goes up has come (way) down for heat’s 3-point shooting in playoffs, things to do this week: haim, miranda lambert, john mulaney, mezcal lauderdale, covid-19 update: positivity rate reaches 21.7% in broward and 13.2% in palm beach; hospitalizations remain low, covid-19 update: positivity rate reaches 21.7% in broward and 13.2% in palm beach; hospitalizations remain low, coral reefs provide stunning images of a world under assault, medication abortions are increasing: what they are and where women get them, ready to rummage? delray beach church plans annual sale, coupons for support: publix, special olympics join forces to benefit athletes, church crafters get creative to sell handmade holiday items, starbucks holiday-themed drinks and cups available starting thursday, shoppers can get their black friday deals now instead of waiting until nov. 26, a chanel bag for $150? shop for success popping up in new location, florida public notices approved auditor info for south florida sun sentinel, connect, tribune publishing, company info, copyright © 2022, south florida sun-sentinel][home page, , the real estate boom see more the real estate boom articles, sports see more sports articles, going out see more going out articles, opinion see more opinion articles, free fun & games, coronavirus latest see more coronavirus latest articles, business & real estate see more business & real estate articles, health see more health articles, today's paperread the enewspaper >, local see more local articles, politics & elections see more politics & elections articles, nation & world see more nation & world articles, sun sentinel store, deals & shopping see more deals & shopping articles, legal notices: property sales, building changes and more, consumer reviews see more consumer reviews articles]top south florida news, sports, weather and entertainment - south florida sun-sentinel[][forecast, today's paper, newsletters, obituaries, heat playoffs, eating, sports, covid data, opinion, to do, lottery, real estate, puzzles, climate & environment, climate & environment, that time of year again: first tropical wave of 2022 emerges off coast of west africa, fort lauderdale news, jay’s sandbar bbq feeds hungry boaters aboard fort lauderdale’s only floating restaurant, florida news, a ‘metamorphosis’: football star sam bruce, 24, was forging a bright future before tragic death, formula 1 miami grand prix at the miami international autodrome | photos, fort lauderdale news, bahia mar developer files $10 million countersuit against boat show, broward county news, map: wildfires currently burning in florida, two dead in crash on i-95 in broward, travel news, letters to the editor, the irs dropped its demand to upload selfies, so why is florida still requiring them?, business, women denied entry at florida strip club will take case to state supreme court — again, florida news, south florida’s real estate boom: see updated data on home prices, sales and rent, mortgage demand is dropping. here’s what it means for the housing market in south florida., not all baby boomers are downsizing their homes. here’s why, they bought homes after the market crashed a decade ago. now they’re seeing values soar., 1. popular floating restaurant jay’s sandbar food boat sinks in fort lauderdale; owner vows to rebuild after ‘total loss’ may 8, 2. ask ira: why the (heck?) isn’t heat’s erik spoelstra playing duncan robinson? 5h, 3. a ‘metamorphosis’: football star sam bruce, 24, was forging a bright future before tragic death may 7, 4. ¿ganaste la lotería de visas para obtener una tarjeta de residencia (green card)? es hora de averiguarlo... may 2, 5. things to do this week: haim, miranda lambert, john mulaney, mezcal lauderdale 2h, events, jax ale trail bills beer as a big reason to visit jacksonville, unique beaches: from blowing rocks to tree-lined beaches, florida’s coastline has it all, miami heat, ask ira: why the (heck?) isn’t heat’s erik spoelstra playing duncan robinson?, viewpoints, abortion-rights rally draws diverse crowd to downtown fort lauderdale | photos, banning abortion forces pregnancy on women | opinion, us & world news, venerable bonaventure resort & spa will be demolished to make way for apartment project, florida attractions, read the latest edition of explore florida & the caribbean, us & world news, dozens feared dead after russian bomb hits ukrainian school where at least 90 were sheltering in basement, us & world news, real estate, miami dolphins, eating, about, miami heat what goes up has come (way) down for heat’s 3-point shooting in playoffs the miami heat are struggling on 3-pointers vs. philadelphia 76ers in nba playoff eastern conference semifinals. what (or who) is the answer? by ira winderman 1h, miami heat, heat fate against 76ers seemingly hangs in the balance with kyle lowry’s hamstring strain, ask ira: why the (heck?) isn’t heat’s erik spoelstra playing duncan robinson?, ask ira: do heat need to go back to what had worked with robinson?, events things to do this week: haim, miranda lambert, john mulaney, mezcal lauderdale a guide to the week's main events in south florida, from west palm beach and delray beach to fort lauderdale and miami. by ben crandell 2h, events, from boca raton to blues music awards: guitarist j.p. soars among record number of south florida nominees, from the ‘hood’ to lincoln center: how dillard jazz band’s no-nonsense ‘mr. dorsey’ changed opinions and lives, weekend things to do: miami grand prix, kentucky derby, snarky puppy and a boozy brunch for mom, inflation, supply issues began before biden | letters to the editor, early exposure to lgbtq+ issues matters | opinion, parkland trial is most difficult area of law | letters to the editor, banning abortion forces pregnancy on women | opinion, daily crossword, jumble daily, jumble daily in color, daily solitaire, bubble shooter hd, jewels blitz, daily sudoku, 2020 connect, mahjong story, coronavirus covid-19 update: positivity rate reaches 21.7% in broward and 13.2% in palm beach; hospitalizations remain low new coronavirus infections are rising fast in florida, with broward county hit particularly hard in the past week. the new strain isn’t making most people sick enough to need intensive care. by cindy krischer goodman may 6, 2022, coronavirus, covid-19 update: here are the key statistics to watch in florida, covid-19 update: south florida positivity rate jumps above 10%, miami-dade now considered moderate transmission level, where in south florida can i get paxlovid, pfizer’s new covid pill? here’s everything you need to know, people on the move: career changes in the fields of law, government, real estate and more, the planner: your weekly calendar of business events, the irs dropped its demand to upload selfies, so why is florida still requiring them?, boca raton luxury car case spawns 26 police reports and a flurry of lawsuits, coronavirus covid-19 update: positivity rate reaches 21.7% in broward and 13.2% in palm beach; hospitalizations remain low new coronavirus infections are rising fast in florida, with broward county hit particularly hard in the past week. the new strain isn’t making most people sick enough to need intensive care. by cindy krischer goodman may 6, 2022, coronavirus, covid-19 update: here are the key statistics to watch in florida, florida no longer a haven for abortion access: ‘we cannot rest on any amount of protection that exists today’, climate & environment coral reefs provide stunning images of a world under assault humans don’t know what they’re missing in south florida, just under the surface of a busy shipping channel in the “cruise capital of the world.” by curt anderson and cody jackson 1h, climate & environment, popular floating restaurant jay’s sandbar food boat sinks in fort lauderdale; owner vows to rebuild after ‘total loss’, wildfires that burned more than 26,000 acres in the everglades have been contained, ahead of formula 1 miami grand prix, lewis hamilton talks roe v. wade, two dead in car crash on i-95 in broward, only one reviewer complained of ‘critical race theory’ in florida math textbooks, orlando sentinel, sun sentinel stand by math book story despite education agency’s complaint, appeals court reinstates florida’s 2021 election law provisions struck down by judge, desantis signs into law tax ‘holidays’ for gas, schools, hurricanes,, us & world news medication abortions are increasing: what they are and where women get them if the supreme court overturns roe v. wade as expected, medication abortion will play a larger role, especially among women who lose access to abortion clinics. by claire cain miller and margot sanger-katz 1h, us & world news, workers grapple with new stresses as they return to office, mario batali waives jury trial in sexual misconduct case, trump, emboldened after ohio victory, faces challenges ahead, philippines at tenuous moment with ferdinand marcos jr., son of ousted dictator, leading election count, be the smartest person in the room! -shop now, commemorate history with custom article plaques -shop now, get 20% off 2 or more jumble puzzle books -shop now, ready to rummage? delray beach church plans annual sale jan 28, 2022, coupons for support: publix, special olympics join forces to benefit athletes dec 30, 2021, church crafters get creative to sell handmade holiday items nov 15, 2021, starbucks holiday-themed drinks and cups available starting thursday nov 3, 2021, shoppers can get their black friday deals now instead of waiting until nov. 26 nov 1, 2021, a chanel bag for $150? shop for success popping up in new location oct 27, 2021, the best yoga ball, the best organizer for your desk drawer, the best knife block, the best carving knife, diy chore chart ideas, about, , , , , chicago tribune, the baltimore sun, the morning call of pa., daily press of va., the daily meal, new york daily news, orlando sentinel, hartford courant, the virginian-pilot, studio 1847, , contact the newsroom, place an ad, privacy policy, terms of service, feedback, do not sell my personal information, , careers, , archives, manage web notifications, newspaper online]