[a resume or cv is a summary of your educational qualifications and work experience. companies usually want to see your resume when you apply for a job. a cover letter or covering letter is the letter that accompanies your resume when you send it to a company. both of these documents are vitally important in the job application process., when you apply for a job, most employers want to have these two important documents from you:, first impressions are important. your resume/cv and letter are usually the first impression that an employer has of you. and because an employer may have hundreds of job applications to consider, you have about 15 seconds to make sure that first impression is a good one., your resume/cv's job is to get you an interview., your resume/cv is your visiting card, your ambassador, your shop window. it represents you and it has a specific purpose: to get you an interview! to do this, it must:, a good resume/cv is one of your most important tools in the search for employment., a resume/cv is not a book., a resume/cv is not an obstacle., a resume/cv is not a tombstone., a resume/cv is not boring or difficult to read., a resume/cv is not your life story or autobiography., a resume/cv is not a catalogue of your personal opinions., a resume/cv is not a list of problems with past employers., a resume/cv is short., a resume/cv is seductive., a resume/cv is an important document., a resume/cv answers the question 'why?', a resume/cv is interesting and easy to read., a resume/cv is a list of benefits for the employer., a resume/cv is as much about the employer as about you., your covering letter must sell your resume/cv., before even looking at your resume/cv, an employer usually reads your covering letter. if it is badly-written, or untidy, or difficult to read, your resume/cv will probably go into the nearest trash-bin. if it is well-written, attractive, easy to read and persuasive, the employer will turn to your resume/cv. it's that simple!, "helpful information & many thanks!" dr. klaus wetter, germany, "gives very clear instructions on producing powerful and effective cvs." terence desborough, usa, "i like the attention that has been devoted to the use of powerful, yet simple wording." hetty vonk, canada, "a gem to find on the net! i thought i knew what there was to know about cv's, but you put me straight on a few points. a very useful tool for students of english wishing/planning to be employed by mncs (multi national companies)." yvonne gluyas, australia, "i thought it was very down-to-earth and extremely simple to understand. i needed some information fast and i got it." michael blunden, uk, covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][resumes and cover letters, you never get a second chance to make a first impression, why you need a good cv, what a resume/cv is not, what a resume/cv is, why you need a good cover letter, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]resumes and cover letters | business english | englishclub[resume, cover letter, a resume or cv, a covering letter, first impressions are important., you, to get you an interview, attract, inform, persuade, sell, "helpful information & many thanks!", "gives very clear instructions on producing powerful and effective cvs.", "i like the attention that has been devoted to the use of powerful, yet simple wording.", "a gem to find on the net! i thought i knew what there was to know about cv's, but you put me straight on a few points. a very useful tool for students of english wishing/planning to be employed by mncs (multi national companies).", "i thought it was very down-to-earth and extremely simple to understand. i needed some information fast and i got it."][a resume or cv, a covering letter, attract, inform, persuade, sell, resumes and cover letters, your cover letter, your resume/cv, resume vocabulary, resumes by internet, resume tips, resume/cover letter samples, phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]