[, free quizzes and tests for pre-intermediate level students to practice their english with. our esl grammar quizzes, exercises and tests are all self-grading. click submit at the end of every quiz to advance to the next slide. when you finish taking the quiz you get your score and then you can review the quiz and find out where you went wrong.hit back to return, , , , all kinds of online interactive exercises can be found here. games, videos, quizzes for grammar, pronunciation, vocabulary & listening practice, esl interactive games. fun grammar & vocabulary exercises featuring : hangman, snakes & ladders, wheel of fortune, crossword,word search, esl, english grammar practice - parts of speech, vocabulary exercises arranged by topic. quizzes & games for online practice., learn to speak english correctly through phonetic exercises. we have phonetic & phonics quizzes, games and listening exercises. listen and say., business english, survival english, idiomatic expressions, communicative chunks, advanced & intermediate level quizzes to help adults practice., esl fun games and activities for the classroom. esl powerpoint games, esl board games, card games, interactive games, game templates for your to build your own exercises., , , downloadable esl products:with a combined 6 ebooks for kids, you are armed with the best teaching materials for young learners in the industry. these ebook packs are loaded with materials of the highest quality, designed to save you great amounts of lesson planning time and teaching energy. instant download!, this site was set up in 2006 by futonge kisito with students and teachers in mind. the goal was to create a place where students can practice english online using interactive exercises.it was also for teachers to use as a study lab where they can bring their students for extra practice., math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esltower.com is a free esl, efl & elt site that offers top quality printable and interactive english grammar and vocabulary exercises for teachers and students. these grammar and vocabulary resources will save english teachers lesson planning time and offer students a great free opportunity at online self-study.][esl pre-intermediate level quizzes, present tenses games, past simple, past progressive present perfect tense games, conjunctions games, passive vs. active voice games, articles (the/a/an) - definite/indefinite games, modals / modal verbs games, prepositions & conjunctions games, conditionals games, gerunds (-ing) and infinitives (to) games, adjectives and adverbs games, upper-intermediate/advanced level english grammar quizzes, games for classrooms - click here, adult learners' exercises - click here, esl grammar games online - click here, esltower.com, is a free esl, efl & elt site that offers top quality printable and interactive english grammar and vocabulary exercises for teachers and students., detailed description of english media lab, english media lab, free english video lessons, esl grammar & vocabulary quizzes, according to levels, esl online puzzles , gap fills and cloze exercises, business and survival english, pronunciation exercises and listening, commercial area, englishmedialab.com partner sites, tools for esl learners, products of englishmedialab.com, key site links, useful links, commercial, site profile& link, about this site, teach math - esl-galaxy.com math site, similar site to englishmedialab.com, esl young learners, interactive exercises, products of esl-galaxy.com]esl quizzes, grammar, vocabulary quizzes, pre-intermediate quizzes[verb tenses - past simple, future, present perfect, verb forms - name 5 forms of the verb to sing - sing, sings, sang, singing and sung - 10 points, word building quiz games - adjectives opposites, synonyms, prefixes, suffixes, extreme adjective, esltower.com, esl-galaxy.com, esl kids lab, esl fun games and activities for the classroom, . esl powerpoint games, esl board games, card games, interactive games, game templates for your to build your own exercises., free chinese lessons - chinese-ilab.com, chinese lessons online, new esl kids lab, esl tower, , , with a combined 6 ebooks for kids, you are armed with the best teaching materials for young learners in the industry. these ebook packs are loaded with materials of the highest quality, designed to save you great amounts of lesson planning time and teaching energy. instant download!, futonge kisito, english online, interactive exercises, math4children.com: free math worksheets, math games, online quizzes, video lessons and ebooks downloads for learning and teaching kindergarten, preschool,1st to 6th grade., esltower.com][home, exercises, games/puzzles, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, advanced, plus kizphonics esl games plus, kizphonics, esl games plus, comparatives and superlatives general knowledge quiz., first conditional fill in the blanks quiz., general knowledge english quiz, many or much. fill in the blanks quiz, past simple versus the future tense. comparing past and future. quiz requires user to fill in missing words., prepositions in use. choose the correct prepositions to fill in the blanks., tag questions flash quiz. choose the correct tag question form. multiple choice quiz., tag questions quiz2, verbs and opposites. matching quiz. match verbs to their opposites ., verbs and opposites2. matching quiz. match verbs to their opposites., verbs and opposites 3. matching quiz for verbs and their opposites., verbs and opposites matching 4. match verbs to their opposites., weather forecast. matching quiz about weather conditions., what do i have to do? using "have to". matching quiz., what is it made of? a matching quiz. made of, used for,, word groups. choose the right group of the word listed. matching quiz, zero conditional grammar quiz. test your knowledge of the zero conditional., present progressive action verbs - fling the teacher game, present tenses hangman game, present progressive tense - hangman game, present progressive tense - spelling game, present simple vs. present progressive - snakes & ladders game, present simple vs. present progressive - hangman game, action verbs picture - catching game :, action verbs sentences & picture - catching game, daily routines sequencing exercise - sequencing game exercise, daily routines memory game - matching game, present vs. past tenses - football game, present vs. past tenses - walk the plank game, past simple snakes and ladders - regular/irregular verbs - snakes and ladders, past progressive vs. past simple tenses - snakes and ladders game, past simple - spelling game, present perfect progressive - matching game, irregular past tense - spelling game, present tenses vs. past tenses - classification game, past simple betting - betting jeopardy tv style game, past progressive vs. past simple tense - betting jeopardy tv game, past simple tense - sequencing reading game/exercise, present perfect vs. past simple tense - spin the wheel game, present perfect & past participle - hangman game, english tenses exercise - matching game, formulaic expressions - snakes and ladders games, intermediate level review snakes and ladders game, irregular past simple verb tense quiz show -jeopardy quiz, verb tenses - past simple, future, present perfect - jeopardy classroom game, verb forms - name 5 forms of the verb to sing - sing, sings, sang, singing and sung - 10 points, mixed conjunctions wheel of fortune game, active vs. passive voice - basketball game, correct passive voice - football game, definite article (the) or indefinite article (a) - basketball game, articles - "a, an, the" - snakes and ladders game, modal auxiliary- can, must, would, have to - basketball game, mixed modals- snakes and ladders game, adjectives and nouns followed by prepositions - fling the teacher game, verbs followed by prepositions - basketball game, prepositions game - football game, prepositions of place - in, under, on at - audio memory game, prepositions of time- since, during, in - walk the plank game, conjunctions, if, when, although, in case, unless - duel game, prepositions game - for elementary to pre-intermediate levels - spin off game, prepositions of place - in, on, under, behind, in front of, next to, conditionals practice - first, second, and third conditionals- fling the teacher game, conditionals billionaire game - first, second, third and zero conditionals practice games, gerunds and infinitives - ing or to - duel game, adjectives and opposites - duel game, adjectives hangman game, adverbs of frequency hangman game, adverbs to describe verbs- ending with - ly- -hangman game, adjectives opposite - hangman game, word building quiz games - adjectives opposites, synonyms, prefixes, suffixes, extreme adjective, prefixes and suffixes : prefix multiple choice quiz., future forms-future perfect, future continuous, future simple- exercise-interactive grammar quiz, interactive vocabulary quiz about anti-social behaviour, vandalism, hooliganism,, upper-intermediate assorted grammar questions- conditionals, future forms and more, more quizzes for advanced learners here>>, games for classrooms - click here wheel of fortune games for classroom or self-study quiz show - for classroom or self-study billionaire - games for classrooms or self-study show down quiz - classroom game all games here - click here, wheel of fortune games for classroom or self-study, quiz show - for classroom or self-study, billionaire - games for classrooms or self-study, show down quiz - classroom game, all games here - click here, business english exercises online, survival english - go abroad english exercises for false beginners, communicative phrases - learn commonly used expressions in everyday english, idiomatic expressions from a - z, intermediate level esl grammar and vocabulary quizzes, advanced level esl grammar and vocabulary quizzes, present tenses games, past simple, past progressive present, more more more grammar games- click here, 2009-09-06 - esl games and exercises online - vocabulary games, hangman, snakes and ladders, wheel game, maze games, memory games and more, 2009-07-01 - learn chinese online. free chinese lessons for beginners and elementary levels, 2009-03 -7 - esl kids lessons, worksheets, flashcards and phonics materials, 2007-12-7 - festivals & holiday vocabulary videos- christmas, halloween, thanksgiving, 2007-6-19: pronunciation and intonations updates- phonetic vowels video, vowels sounds mp3 download, free vowel sounds audio book for both students and teachers ( teachers please phonetic worksheets here!!, 2007-6-10 fun english exercises with interactive online crosswords, word search & cloze exercises., 2007-1-7- building vocabulary through prefixes & suffixes. see our intermediate, advanced & grammar areas for interactive affixes quizzes. for teachers see english word formation worksheets on the esl galaxy. 2006-12-20- advanced/upper intermediate quizzes updates. interactive vocabulary and grammar quizzes for advanced students have been updated., beginner video lessons: learn & teach country names, animal vocabulary, colours, clothes, days more..., elementary video lessons learn vocabulary, related to jobs, clothes,months, vegetables, fruits more..., higher level video lessons. use these videos to learn & teach vocabulary and grammar, adjectives comparatives, superlatives, travel, more.., beginner esl quizzes: you will find grammar and vocabulary self-grading exercises for beginners and young learners, elementary esl quizzes: elementary vocabulary & grammar quizzes, vegetables, clothes & weather and more., pre-intermediate esl quizzes: find quizzes that cover most grammar and vocabulary points of this level. do exercises with tag questions, future tenses, simple past tenses,, intermediate esl quizzes : grammar & vocabulary quizzes, gerunds & infinitives, perfect tenses, past continuous, computer vocabulary quizzes and many more.., upper intermediate & advanced esl quizzes: quizzes for high level students, vocabulary related to things like politics, alternative therapy, banking and much more..., crossword puzzles: solve english crossword puzzles online while practicing grammar and vocabulary, word search puzzles: online word search puzzles for esl students to practice grammar and vocabulary in a fun way., cloze & gap fill exercises: drag and drop cloze exercise, spelling and gap fills on line., business english quizzes: self-grading vocabulary tests on a number of topics, banking, negotiations, money idioms, money talk, business across cultures and many more..., survival english: this section deals with english for travelers going to foreign english speaking countries, you will learn words related to going through customs, checking into hotels, travel luggage, passport etc., pronunciation and intonation: english pronunciation and intonation exercises, phonetics, diphthongs,word stress quizzes, and more..., listening exercises: listening exercises, though not many, for listening practice. done with a variety of standard english accents. practice listening here.., grammar quizzes : download self-grading quizzes for offline study, powerpoint lessons : teachers of english would love these 50 powerpoint lessons, audiobooks(mp3 pdf) : mp3 attached to this audio readers- download now!, video lessons & podcasts: download videos on this site for ipod use or for pc use, worksheet ebooks : download esl lesson plan ebook with printable worksheets, board games, crossword puzzles, grammar, vocabulary and theme based lesson plans for tefl., mp3 downloads : download tongue twisters to practice pronunciation, classified ads: advertise a product, service or resume on this site. advertise a banner or program., esl-galaxy.com: free downloadable esl/efl/tesol/tefl teaching materials .printable worksheets, board games, crosswords, puzzle worksheets, theme worksheets,survival english worksheets,esl powerpoint downloads. tefl/tesl teachers' first stop- absolutely free!!!, esl kids lab: efl/esl kids resources for teachers, parents and kids. esl kids videos, worksheets, powerpoint downloads,interactive quizzes for kids, tefl/tesol/esol/esl/efl resources for kids. super cool site for kids. 100% free!!!, esl fun games and activities for the classroom. esl powerpoint games, esl board games, card games, interactive games, game templates for your to build your own exercises., free chinese lessons - chinese-ilab.com: learn chinese yourself on chinese-ilab.com with videos, mp3 downloads and games., chinese lessons online: for those interested in learning survival chinese, this website will take you a long way with free podcasts, mp3 downloads and more., , new esl kids lab: fantastic free resources for esl kids, k-12 - ppt videos, flashcards, handouts and phonics, esl tower : there are grammar & vocabulary quizzes, crosswords, word search and several fun puzzles that make the learning and teaching of english easy and fun. pronunciation is one area we have recently added more content. we have added phonetic vowel and consonant exercises in the form of videos, worksheets, self-tests and mp3 downloads., online english dictionaries - cambridge, webster's, sites for teachers of english as a second/foreign language, english exercises, grammar exercises, english tv - videos, vocabulary exercises, games & puzzles, pronunciation, education links, teacher links, students & teachers, kids website, esl materials store, e-books downloads, grammar/vocab e-books, advertise on this site, about, copyright, sitemap, esl-galaxy.com, esltower.com, contact us, kids worksheets, games for kids lessons, phonics resources, flashcards, video lessons, grammar quizzes, vocabulary quizzes, video slides, pronunciation exercises, online practice exercises, esl kids ebooks, powerpoint packs, math ebooks, grammar/vocab ebooks, esl courseware downloads]