[for teachers: phrasal verbs activity sheet sit down, wake up, write down, pick up... though these useful little word duos (and even trios sometimes!) may look innocent enough, they are, quite understandably, the bane of many a student’s existence. sadly, phrasal verbs are everywhere, so avoiding them is nigh on impossible. and whilst getting to grips with their (often multiple) meanings is a commendable feat in itself, the fun doesn’t stop there, as deciding whether they’re transitive or intransitive, separable or inseparable can be equally, if not more perplexing! this activity sheet helps to familiarise students with the more grammatical side of phrasal verbs, offering them varied and personalised practice both alone and with a partner., for teachers: vocabulary activity sheets free downloadable and printable two-page vocab activity sheets that encourage students to practise their english skills both alone and working with a partner. each student activity sheet comes with one page of teacher's notes giving clear directions and answers., listen&learn: brown dwarfs learn about the objects that scientists sometimes call "failed stars"., expressions quiz: time 1 you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about time., , internet vs world wide web - what's the difference? many people think that the internet and the web are the same. although they are intermingled and used together, they are certainly not the same. the internet could exist without the web, but the web as we know it could not exist without the internet., student motivation go beyond the candy, expressions quiz: sleep you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about sleep., , expressions quiz: relationships you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about relationships., , for teachers: future time clauses activity just when students thought the future in english couldn’t get any more confusing, along come the dreaded future time clauses! whilst getting to grips with the multitude of similar yet different time conjunctions entailed is a pretty mean feat in itself, deciding which tenses to use with them is enough to tip any mere mortal over the edge! the exercises in this activity sheet allow students to practise these vital yet vexing clauses in an enjoyable and varied manner., expressions quiz: money you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about money., , expressions quiz: location you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about location., , expressions quiz: food you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions used when talking about food., , listen&learn: the history of cinco de mayo learn about the day that celebrates mexico's victory in a historic battle., 10 tips and tricks for teaching english as a second language in this post, you'll learn some of the best tips for teaching the english language, listen&learn: serena williams learn about the famous women's tennis champion., listen&learn: the adventures of sherlock holmes learn about some of the most famous detective stories of all time., listen&learn: pando learn about the thousands of trees that share the same roots., expressions with common words quizzes try these fun multiple-choice quizzes with typical english expressions that use common words such as do, just, see, well. each quiz has 10 questions (with answers)., , listen&learn: circadian rhythms learn how the body keeps track of time., expressions with you quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word you., , expressions with voice quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word voice., , expressions with well quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word well., , expressions with under quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word under., , listen&learn: the code of hammurabi learn about some of the earliest written laws., listen&learn: hedy lamarr learn about the famous actress and inventor., listen&learn: grimm’s fairy tales learn about the famous german fairy tales., listen&learn: the d. b. cooper case learn about a fascinating unsolved mystery., expressions with take quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word take., , expressions with see quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word see., , expressions with run quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word run., , six new and effective apps for learning english there are so many ways to learn english online, but here are just six of the most innovative ones, expressions with put quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word put., , expressions with on quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word on., , listen&learn: exoplanets learn about planets outside of our solar system., expressions with no quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word no., , how i learned english from watching movies (and how you can too) movies are a great medium for learning a new language; here is how they helped me become fluent in english., expressions with like quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word like., , expressions with keep quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word keep., , listen&learn: the discovery of insulin learn the history of the life-saving drug for people with diabetes., listen&learn: toni morrison learn about the author of the award-winning novel beloved., listen&learn: the art of war learn about the ancient book on military strategy., expressions with just quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word just., minimal pair /æ/ and /ɑ:/ - as in had and hard with audio. below is a list of words that vary only by one having the vowel sound /æ/ and the other the vowel sound /ɑ:/. you can use this list to practise the sounds, or as a list of words to be careful in pronouncing., expressions with in quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word in., expressions with hard quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word hard., expressions with good quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word good., expressions with for quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word for., listen&learn: esperanto learn about the constructed language with over 100,000 speakers., expressions with every quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word every., expressions with do quiz you can do this quiz online or print it on paper. it tests comprehension of common english expressions that include the word do., covid-19 vocab + quiz, vaccine vocabulary + quiz, the vocabulary of censorship, top 10 @ englishclub:, © 1997-2022 englishclub.com all rights reserved.  the world's premier free educational website for learners + teachers of english england • since 1997][new pages on englishclub, englishclub features, about englishclub, connect with englishclub, the englishclub group]new | englishclub[][phrasal verbs list, irregular verbs list, numbers chart 1-100, verb tenses, grammar, parts of speech, prepositions of time at in on, wh- question words, grammar quizzes, parts of speech quiz, ⚲ search, learn english, teach english, ebooks, grammar, vocabulary, pronunciation, listening, speaking, reading, writing, about, join englishclub, newsletter archive, advertise, link to us, guestbook, guest posts, privacy notice, terms of use, permissions, contact englishclub, follow englishclub twitter, like englishclub facebook, subscribe englishclub youtube, follow englishclub gettr, follow englishclub linkedin, follow englishclub pinterest, equiz.me, englishclub.com, myenglishclub.com, tefl.net]