[just ask a friend what is the role of prepositions within sentences, or what are the four moods of verbs, and i am sure that you will see a puzzled look on his face., understanding the basic grammar rules is essential for communicating efficiently, but most of us have forgotten those concepts years ago., in order to solve this problem we decided to put together all the basic rules on a single page, so that you can use it as a refresher, or print it out for future reference. enjoy!, sentences are made of two parts: the subject and the predicate., the subject is the person or thing that acts or is described in the sentence. the predicate, on the other hand, is that action or description., complete sentences need both the subject and the predicate., sentences can be broken down into clauses., for example: the boy is going to the school, and he is going to eat there., this is a complete sentence composed of two clauses. there are mainly two types of clauses: independent clauses and subordinate clauses., independent clauses act as complete sentences, while subordinate clauses cannot stand alone and need another clause to complete their meaning. for example:, independent clause example: the boy went to the school. subordinate clause example: after the boy went to the school…, a group of two or more grammatically linked words that do not have subject and predicate is a phrase., example of a complete sentence: the girl is at home, and tomorrow she is going to the amusement park. example of a clause: the girl is at home example of a phrase: the girl, you can see that “the girl” is a phrase located in the first clause of the complete sentence above., phrases act like parts of speech inside clauses. that is, they can act as nouns, adjectives, adverbs and so on., a word is a “part of speech” only when it is used in a sentence. the function the word serves in a sentence is what makes it whatever part of speech it is., for example, the word “run” can be used as more than one part of speech:., sammy hit a home run., run is a noun, direct object of hit., you mustn’t run near the swimming pool., run is a verb, part of the verb phrase must (not) run., traditional grammar classifies words based on eight parts of speech: the noun, the pronoun, the adjective, the verb, the adverb, the preposition, the conjunction, and the interjection. we are going to cover them individually below., a noun is a word used to describe a person, place, thing, event, idea, and so on. nouns represent one of the main elements of sentences, along with verbs, adjectives, prepositions and articles., nouns usually function as subjects or objects within sentences, although they can also act as adjectives and adverbs., here is a list with the different types of nouns:, 1. proper nouns, used to describe a unique person or thing, proper nouns always start with a capital letter. examples include mary, india, and manchester united., 2. common nouns, common nouns are used to describe persons or things in general. examples include girl, country, and team, 3. concrete nouns, nouns that can be perceived through the five senses are called concrete nouns. examples include ball, rainbow and melody., 4. abstract nouns, nouns that cannot be perceived through the five senses are called abstract nouns. examples include love, courage, and childhood., 5. countable nouns countable nouns can be counted. they also have both a singular and a plural form. examples include toys, children and books., 6. non-countable nouns, these nouns (usually) can not be counted, and they don’t have a plural form. examples include sympathy, laughter and oxygen., 7. collective nouns, collective nouns are used to describe groups of things. examples include flock, committee and murder., the english language has both regular and irregular plural forms of nouns. the most common case is when you need to add -s to the noun. for example one car and two cars., the other two cases of the regular plural form are:, on the irregular plural form of nouns there are basically eight cases:, it might appear overwhelming, but after using these nouns a couple of times you will be able to memorize their plural form easily., pronouns are used to replace nouns within sentences, making them less repetitive and mechanic. for example, saying “mary didn’t go to school because mary was sick” doesn’t sound very good. instead, if you say “mary didn’t go to school because she was sick” it will make the sentence flow better., there are several types of pronouns, below you will find the most common ones:, 1. subjective personal pronouns. as the name implies, subjective pronouns act as subjects within sentences. they are: i, you, he, she, we, they, and it., example: i am going to the bank while he is going to the market., 2. objective personal pronouns. these pronouns act as the object of verbs within sentences. they are: me, you, him, her, us, them and it., example: the ball was going to hit me in the face., 3. possessive personal pronouns. these pronouns are used to indicate possession, and they are placed after the object in question (as opposed to possessive adjectives like my and your, which are placed before the object). they are: mine, yours, his, hers, ours, theirs and its., example of possessive adjective: this is my car. example of possessive pronoun: this car is mine., 4. reflexive pronouns. this special class of pronouns is used when the object is the same as the subject on the sentence. they are myself, yourself, himself, herself, ourselves, themselves and itself., example: i managed to cut myself in the kitchen., 5. interrogative pronouns. as you probably guessed these pronouns are used to ask questions. they are what, which, who, whom and whose., example: what are the odds?, 6. demonstrative pronouns. these pronouns are used to indicate a noun and distinguish it from other entities. notice that demonstrative pronouns replace the noun (while demonstrative determiners modify them). they are: this, that, these, those., example of a demonstrative determiner: this house is ugly. example of a demonstrative pronoun: this is the right one., 7. indefinite pronouns. as the name implies, indefinite pronouns do not refer to a specific thing, place or person. there are many of them, including anyone, anywhere, everyone, none, someone and so on., example: everyone is going to the party., an adjective is a word that describes a noun. there are two kinds: attributive and predicative., an adjective is used attributively when it stands next to a noun and describes it., for example: the black cat climbed a tree., notice that the verb participle forms can be used as adjectives:, the man felt a paralyzing fear. flavored oatmeal tastes better than plain oatmeal., the usual place of the adjective in english is in front of the noun. you can have a whole string of adjectives if you like: the tall thin evil-looking cowboy roped the short, fat, inoffensive calf., sometimes, for rhetorical or poetic effect, the adjective can come after the noun: sarah plain and tall (book title) this is the forest primeval., an adjective is used predicatively when a verb separates it from the noun or pronoun it describes: the umpire was wrong. the crowd was furious. she seems tired today. this soup tastes bad. the dog’s coat feels smooth., the verbs that can be completed by predicate adjectives are called being verbs or copulative verbs. they include all the forms of to be and sensing verbs like seem, feel, and taste., the demonstrative adjectives the and a (an) are so important in english that they have a special name: articles. they are discussed separately below., the words a, an, and the are generally called articles and sometimes classed as a separate part of speech. in function, however, they can be grouped with the demonstrative adjectives that are used to point things out rather than describe them., definite article the is called the definite article because it points out a particular object or class. this is the book i was talking about. the dodo bird is extinct., indefinite article a is called the indefinite article because it points out an object, but not any particular specimen. a book, a dog, a lawn mower, the indefinite article has two forms: a is used before words beginning with a consonant sound or an aspirated h: a car, a lamb, a hope, a habit, a hotel, an is used before words beginning with a vowel sound: an ape, an image, an untruth, an honorable man, english has three kinds of verbs: transitive, intransitive, and incomplete., 1. transitive verbs a verb is transitive when the action is carried across to a receiver:, the farmer grows potatoes. elvis sang ballads., the receiver is called the direct object. it answers the question “what?” or “whom? after the verb. grows what? potatoes. sang what? ballads., 2. intransitive verbs a verb is intransitive when the action stays with the verb. it is not carried across to a receiver:, corn grows. elvis sang. adding a prepositional phrase to modify the verb does not change the fact that the action remains with the subject: corn grows in the fields. elvis sang all over the world., both transitive and intransitive verbs are action verbs., 3. incomplete verbs there are three types of incomplete verbs:, i. being verbs – also called linking or copulative verbs to be, seem, become, taste, smell, sound, feel, tip: some of these verbs can also be used transitively. if in doubt, substitute a form of to be for the verb. if the sentence still makes sense, the verb is being used as a copulative verb:, he feels depressed. he is depressed. he feels the wall. he is the wall., ii. auxiliary verbs – also called helping verbs be, have, shall, will, do, and may. he could have gone earlier., iii. semi-auxiliary verbs must, can, ought, dare, need. you must not go. you dare not go., english verbs are said to have two voices: active and passive., active voice: the subject of the sentence performs the action:, his son catches fly balls. creative children often dream in class., note: verbs in the active voice may be either transitive or intransitive., passive voice: the subject receives the action:, the ball was caught by the first baseman. the duty is performed by the new recruits. the dough was beaten by the mixer. the mailman was bitten by the dog., only transitive verbs can be used in the passive voice. what would be the direct object of the verb in the active voice becomes the subject of the verb in the passive voice:, active voice: the dog bit the mailman. “bit” is a transitive verb. the receiver/direct object is “mailman.”, passive voice: the mailman was bitten by the dog. “bit” is now in the passive voice. the “receiver” has become the subject of the verb., a passive verb in either present or past tense will always have two parts: some form of the verb to be (am, is, are, was, were), and a past participle (verb form ending in -ed, -en, or any form used with have when forming a perfect tense)., note: the mere presence of the verb to be does not indicate that a verb is in the passive voice. the test of a verb in the passive voice is the two-part question:, is the subject performing the action of the verb or is the subject receiving the action of the verb?, if the subject is receiving the action, then the verb is in passive voice., sometimes the passive voice is the best way to express a thought. used carelessly, however, passive voice can produce a ponderous, inexact writing style., english verbs have four moods: indicative, imperative, subjunctive, and infinitive., mood is the form of the verb that shows the mode or manner in which a thought is expressed., 1. indicative mood: expresses an assertion, denial, or question:, little rock is the capital of arkansas. ostriches cannot fly. have you finished your homework?, 2. imperative mood: expresses command, prohibition, entreaty, or advice:, don’t smoke in this building. be careful! don’t drown that puppy!, 3. subjunctive mood: expresses doubt or something contrary to fact., modern english speakers use indicative mood most of the time, resorting to a kind of “mixed subjunctive” that makes use of helping verbs:, if i should see him, i will tell him., americans are more likely to say:, if i see him, i will tell him., the verb may can be used to express a wish:, may you have many more birthdays. may you live long and prosper., the verb were can also indicate the use of the subjunctive:, if i were you, i wouldn’t keep driving on those tires. if he were governor, we’d be in better fiscal shape., 4. infinitive mood: expresses an action or state without reference to any subject. it can be the source of sentence fragments when the writer mistakenly thinks the infinitive form is a fully-functioning verb., when we speak of the english infinitive, we usually mean the basic form of the verb with “to” in front of it: to go, to sing, to walk, to speak., verbs said to be in the infinitive mood can include participle forms ending in -ed and -ing. verbs in the infinitive mood are not being used as verbs, but as other parts of speech:, to err is human; to forgive, divine. here, to err and to forgive are used as nouns., he is a man to be admired. here, to be admired is an adjective, the equivalent of admirable. it describes the noun man., he came to see you. here, to see you is used as an adverb to tell why he came., modern english has six tenses, each of which has a corresponding continuous tense., the first three tenses, present, past, and future, present few problems. only third person singular in the present tense differs in form:, present tense of regular (weak) verbs:, today i walk. today he walks., yesterday i walked., tomorrow i shall/will walk., the dwindling class of irregular (strong) verbs must be learned individually., today i go. today he goes., yesterday i went., tomorrow i shall/will go., the other three tenses, perfect, pluperfect, and future perfect, are formed with the helping verbs have, has, and had., perfect: used to express an event that has just finished, and to describe an event which, although in the past, has effects that continue into the present., queen elizabeth has reigned for 56 years., pluperfect (past perfect): used to express an event that took place before another action, also in the past., i had driven all the way to oklahoma when i realized my mistake., future perfect: used to express an event that will have taken place at some time in the future., as of february 26, i shall have been in this job six years., for complete conjugation tables of weak and strong english verbs, see the wikipedia article., adverbs are used to describe or modify a verb, adjective, clause, or another adverb. basically, they modify everything except nouns and pronouns (which are modified by adjectives)., example of an adverb modifying a verb: he was running fast. (fast modifies running), example of an adverb modifying an adjective: she took a very small piece of the cake. (very modifies small), example of an adverb modifying a sentence: strangely, the man left the room. (strangely modifies the whole sentence), usually adverbs answer to the questions “when?” (adverbs of time), “where?” (adverbs of place), and “how?” (adverbs of manner)., adverbs can also be used to connect clauses and sentences (in this case they are called conjunctive adverbs)., for example: it was dark. therefore, we needed the torch. (therefore connects the two sentences), prepositions are used to link nouns and pronouns to other words within a sentence. the words linked to are called objects., usually prepositions show a spatial or temporal relationship between the noun and the object, like in the example below:, the cat is under the table., cat is the noun. under is the preposition. table is the object., here is a list with the most common prepositions: about, above, after, among, around, along, at, before, behind, beneath, beside, between, by, down, from, in, into, like, near, of, off, on, out, over, through, to, up, upon, under, and with., notice that you can also have a prepositional phrase, which is formed by the preposition and its object. a preposition phrase can function as adverb, adjective or noun. for example:, the dog was running under the rain., the prepositional phrase “under the rain” acts as an adverb, specifying where the dog was running., a conjunction joins words and groups of words., there are two classes of conjunction: co-ordinate or coordinating and subordinate or subordinating., co-ordinate conjunctions: and, but, either…or, neither…nor., subordinate conjunctions: that, as, after, before, since, when, where, unless, if., mother and father are driving me to new orleans. (and is a coordinate conjunction joining words of equal significance in the sentence., i painted the walls but jack painted the woodwork. (but is a coordinate conjunction joining clauses of equal significance in the sentence. either clause could stand alone as a sentence.), since you can’t get away, we’ll go without you. (since is a subordinate conjunction joining a less important thought to a more important thought. the main clause, we’ll go without you, can stand alone as a complete thought. the subordinate clause, since you can’t get away, is an incomplete thought. it is dependent upon the main clause for meaning.), note: the relative pronouns who, whom, which, and that are used in the same way that subordinate conjunctions are. the difference is that the relative pronouns serve three purposes at once:, 1) they stand for a noun in the main clause 2) they connect the clauses 3) they serve as a subject or object word in the subordinate clause:, he is the man who invented the hula hoop. (who stands for man and is the subject of invented), charles is the boy whom the other children tease. (whom stands for boy and is the object of tease), give me the piece of string that is waxed. (that stands for string and is the subject of is waxed), there goes the horse which won the derby. (which refers to horse and is the subject of won), the possessive adjective whose can also be used to join clauses: that’s the bird whose plumage i admire. (whose refers to bird and describes plumage), interjection comes from from a latin word that means “throw between.” it’s a word or phrase that is thrown into a sentence to express an emotion:, goodness, how you’ve grown! darn, i forgot my lunch! alas, will he never return?, all the impolite expressions that we call expletives are interjections., strictly speaking, an interjection is not a part of speech. it serves no grammatical function but is rather “a noisy utterance like the cry of an animal” (f.j. rahtz). interjections express feeling or emotion, not thought and have been called “the miserable refuge of the speechless.”, if you’ve ever stood lunch duty on a high school campus, you know just how vapid conversation can be when larded with meaningless interjections., want to improve your english in five minutes a day? get a subscription and start receiving our writing tips and exercises daily!, thanks for this great overview. no matter how many times i review grammar basics, there’s always something i haven’t quite gotten the hang of., thank you. i loved this so much i am turning it into a poster for my office wall., wonderful! i’m going to forward this to my workmates., excellent! i am an english teacher but of the generation that somehow missed learning grammar . yes, there are many of us out there (can you imagine that?). this is exactly what i have only just recently realised i needed. thankyou., wow. just … wow. what a fantastic post–pretty much everything you really need to know, all in one, handy spot., hi, daniel, i think you will be a great teacher if you want to be., i have a problem with plural nouns, irregular rule #6 — “oo” words become “ee” words in the plural. that works for the example given, “foot” becomes “feet”, but not for a host of other examples that came to mind: boot, hoop, tool, fool, etc. i think it’s incorrect to call it a rule., very well written. i’ll share this post with my students. 🙂, what is wft, rofl ,ffs , lol, i cant find them in any dictionary., me love good grammar guy. hulk smash!, greta article., cool, classy, concise., i print this post to pdf to read it daily for writing tips., great post, very good info 🙂, i’m bookmarking it, thanks again, “just ask to a friend…” is that a typo in the first sentence??, thank you, very interesting article, what? not a word about dangling participles? ok i’ll explain it: a dangling modifier is one that does not actually modify the subject that it follows. the object it modifies is found in the sentence but it is not followed by the modifier., “one morning i shot an elephant in my pajamas. how he got into my pajamas i don’t know.”, though, logically, the person making the statement would have been wearing the pajamas, the line plays on the grammatical possibility that the elephant was wearing his pajamas, owing to its misplaced modifier., excellent!!, ecellent. i am astounded how little college students know about grammar and the role it plays in comprehension and precise communication, the claim is made here that “understanding the basic grammar rules is essential for communicating efficiently, but most of us have forgotten those concepts years ago.” not quite true. we humans are born with an instinct for picking up thousands of grammar rules unconsciously, and thus, by the time we are 6 or 7, before we attend school, we verbally communicate nearly perfectly with friends and family. no rules have been consciously learned, and these “wired-in” rules are never forgotten. what the author means, i think, is that it is interesting and fruitful to spend time becoming consciously aware of the structure of language in order to become more sophisticated users of it, especially when it comes to writing., my name is reza, hello how are you, yes, great stuff! i am not amazed that college students don’t know basic grammar. it’s an awful lot to store, and isn’t that why they made great sites like this…to dust off the brain cells., henry cruz, nice post. you might want to change the possessive adjective classifications slightly., nobody has said “thy” except when quoting the bible or similarly ancient material for a long time. make it “your” instead., this is great! thanks! this will help me in my writing career. it’s sad to know that there are still teachers that don’t know what they are teaching. for example, i had a teacher who said that you should use “a” if the first letter of the succeeding word is a consonant and “an” if the first letter of the succeeding word is a vowel. but that’s not always the case. you don’t say “a hour”, right?, she needs enlightenment, danielle. lol., what a wonderful resource. you should offer it as a .pdf somewhere on your blog., i suspect this, with a few properly placed commercials, might make its way around the web and bring additional value to your blog., it seems too valuable to leave trapped in this post., give me the verbs to be with all tences and pronous, this page has been quite informative however, i still have a question. is “if i were you, i would go.” always correct? is there ever a case where one would say “if i was you…”?, excellent ! clear and concise. this article provides very useful information. thanks a lot ! – abraham, hi to all the grammarian out there! i’m a 2nd year student,majoring english may i ask you to kindly make a response on my research paper ? i have to find any problem with has a concern in grammar and find also an answer on that particular problem..for example, we defined verb that is denotes a state of being but how come that the verb in this sentence denotes a state of being?, hi to all the grammarian out there! may i ask you to kindly make an answer to my research paper? i’m a 2nd college student, majoring english. i have to find any problem that has a concern in grammar and give an answer to that particular problem. for example,, she is beautiful. we defined verb that is denotes a state of being. but how come that “is” in that sentence denotes a state of being?, i will appreciate any help that you can give to me …thank you in advance., thank you so much. you really educate me., am lacking behind before but now there is improvement even my teacher comfirm it., thank you for sharing information!, i would like to say that grammar is very important to improve our skill especially in writing and speaking., really ,i am happy for that ,i like studying english ,i am learning now in special institute ,until now oky, i need to practice more and speak too ,i have dreamt for along time to visit uk or usa maybe that impossible for many reasons :first money…… i would like to be your friend from that web,i don’t know if you expect me,by the way i have finished 3rd level in syria, am i good ? thank you…. for your eforts, the way grammar is written,and the sequence especially of it ,is intresting.it’s enough for urgent learners that every thing is right here…………..thankx, this really helped me with my english thankyou for helping i used to have a 36% now i have an 92% thanks bye bye, this resume can be one of my reference to learn and teach english, this is very useful for each and every individual to improve the lanuguage skills. it is very healthy stuff for the teachers, students and for other members. i have confident that i can speak english fluently., really very good article and a piece no a huge piece of good grammaticle information. thanks for the info., this helpes me alot for my english homework. it also helped me study for a test., i hate greammar but i love to write!!!!!!!!!!!!!, can anyone help me in knowing: when you write a letter, in salutation, can we use capital a for all., example: dear all., i feel very intersting to speak english., thnx sooo much…this really helped me!, thnx…this really helped me on my homework and made my studying and test results alot better…thnx again…, hello. i’m interesting about the english grammar’s because i want to improve my skill and help me how to improve my.speaking,writing, listening. thank you so much. please reply me., it is very useful and brusy up my memories., thank you very much for your article, which is correct? this is photo of mike and i, at the beach or this is a photo of mike and me, at the beach., this is the kind of stuff we need to know to avoid english teaching myths at least in my country we call it spanglish, , , , , copyright © 2007 - 2021 daily writing tips . all right reserved][english grammar 101: all you need to know, keep learning! browse the grammar 101 category, check our popular posts, or choose a related post below:, stop making those embarrassing mistakes! subscribe to daily writing tips today!, 95 responses to “english grammar 101: all you need to know”, leave a comment: cancel comment, categories]english grammar 101: all you need to know[subject, predicate, both, independent, subordinate, do not, noun, pronoun, adjective, verb, adverb, preposition, conjunction, interjection, noun, subjects, objects, proper nouns, common nouns, concrete nouns, abstract nouns, countable nouns, non-countable nouns, collective nouns, regular, irregular, s, x, ch, sh, -es, consonant + y, y with i and add -es, -o, -es, -is, -is to -es, -f, f to -v and add -es, -fe, -f to -v and add -s, -us, -us to -i, -oo, -oo to -ee, -on, -on with -a, pronouns, replace nouns, subjective personal pronouns., objective personal pronouns, possessive personal pronouns, reflexive pronouns, interrogative pronouns, demonstrative pronouns, indefinite pronouns, attributive, predicative, attributively, black, paralyzing, flavored, tall thin evil-looking, short, fat, inoffensive, plain, tall, primeval, predicatively, wrong, furious, tired, bad, smooth, predicate adjective, being verbs, copulative verbs, qualitative, possessive, relative and interrogative, numeral, indefinite, demonstrative, the, a, an, articles, a, an, the, articles, definite article, the, article, indefinite article, a, indefinite article, a, an, 1. transitive verbs, transitive, across, 2. intransitive verbs, intransitive, action verbs, 3. incomplete verbs, being verbs, tip, ii. auxiliary verbs, iii. semi-auxiliary verbs, active voice, note, passive voice, note, indicative mood, imperative mood, subjunctive mood, infinitive mood, present, past, future, perfect, pluperfect, future perfect, perfect, pluperfect, future perfect, describe, modify, when?, where?, how?, conjunctive adverbs, link nouns and pronouns, objects, conjunction, co-ordinate, coordinating, subordinate, subordinating, co-ordinate conjunction, subordinate conjunctions, and, but, since, since, note, who, whom, that, which, whose, whose, goodness, darn, alas, rachelon august 26, 2008 4:09 pm, warren son august 26, 2008 8:11 pm, sally, snappy sentenceson august 26, 2008 9:30 pm, flotoonieon august 27, 2008 12:54 am, –debon august 27, 2008 1:16 am, youngon august 27, 2008 12:26 pm, matton august 27, 2008 2:17 pm, raymond chuaon august 27, 2008 2:46 pm, sad manon august 27, 2008 8:24 pm, chrison august 27, 2008 8:32 pm, sorted philon august 27, 2008 8:40 pm, yuenon august 27, 2008 9:38 pm, brandonon august 28, 2008 12:45 am, edwinon august 28, 2008 4:05 am, mayor of kentonvilleon august 28, 2008 6:21 am, kenon august 28, 2008 4:46 pm, markon august 28, 2008 5:49 pm, tova teitelbaumon august 29, 2008 7:54 am, prof. grammaron august 30, 2008 1:28 am, rezaon august 31, 2008 2:57 pm, rezaon august 31, 2008 2:58 pm, rezaon august 31, 2008 3:00 pm, henry cruzon september 01, 2008 8:22 am, robin cooperon september 01, 2008 1:14 pm, lord allenon september 04, 2008 1:58 pm, david porteron september 05, 2008 8:12 pm, prosperon september 09, 2008 10:24 am, leahon september 09, 2008 3:21 pm, abraham manoon september 27, 2008 4:14 pm, melon october 02, 2008 10:01 am, melon october 02, 2008 10:10 am, vickyon october 04, 2008 8:17 am, christianon october 07, 2008 7:59 am, ningon october 22, 2008 7:32 am, wasseemon november 04, 2008 11:33 pm, atif elahion november 09, 2008 5:29 pm, cutieon november 09, 2008 11:07 pm, jumarnoon november 21, 2008 4:27 am, v.s.yogeethaon december 12, 2008 10:01 am, antashon january 02, 2009 11:51 am, lillieon january 04, 2009 11:00 pm, shannonon february 06, 2009 12:27 pm, saifon february 20, 2009 8:40 am, sanjoyon april 13, 2009 4:26 pm, kassieon april 19, 2009 1:14 am, mariaon april 19, 2009 7:27 am, melissaon may 04, 2009 9:30 am, khaleel ahmedon june 14, 2009 9:09 am, christine segalon june 14, 2009 1:06 pm, rodon july 01, 2009 3:46 pm][home, popular, nouns that end with s, x, ch or sh, where you add -es (e.g., one box, two boxes), nouns that end with consonant + y, where you change the y with i and add -es (e.g., one enemy, two enemies), nouns that end with -o, where you add -es (e.g., one potato, two potatoes), nouns ending with -is, where you change -is to -es (e.g., one crisis, two crises), nouns ending with -f, where you change –f to -v and add -es (e.g., one wolf, two wolves), nouns ending with -fe, where you change -f to -v and add -s (e.g., one life, two lives), nouns ending with -us, where you change -us to -i (e.g., one fungus, two fungi), nouns that contain -oo, change -oo to -ee (e.g., one foot, two feet), nouns that end with -on, where you change -on with -a (e.g., phenomenon, phenomena), nouns that don’t change (e.g., sheep, offspring, series), qualitative: good, bad, happy, blue, french, possessive: my, thy, his, her, its, our, your, their, relative and interrogative: which, what, whatever, etc., numeral: one, two, second, single, etc., indefinite: some, any, much, few, every, etc., demonstrative: this, that, the, a (an), such, how to structure a story: the eight-point arc, broadcast vs broadcasted as past form, nominalized verbs, you will improve your english in only 5 minutes per day, guaranteed!, subscribers get access to our archives with 800+ interactive exercises!, you'll also get three bonus ebooks completely free!, rachelon august 26, 2008 4:09 pm thanks for this great overview. no matter how many times i review grammar basics, there’s always something i haven’t quite gotten the hang of., warren son august 26, 2008 8:11 pm thank you. i loved this so much i am turning it into a poster for my office wall., sally, snappy sentenceson august 26, 2008 9:30 pm wonderful! i’m going to forward this to my workmates., flotoonieon august 27, 2008 12:54 am excellent! i am an english teacher but of the generation that somehow missed learning grammar . yes, there are many of us out there (can you imagine that?). this is exactly what i have only just recently realised i needed. thankyou., –debon august 27, 2008 1:16 am wow. just … wow. what a fantastic post–pretty much everything you really need to know, all in one, handy spot., youngon august 27, 2008 12:26 pm hi, daniel, i think you will be a great teacher if you want to be., matton august 27, 2008 2:17 pm i have a problem with plural nouns, irregular rule #6 — “oo” words become “ee” words in the plural. that works for the example given, “foot” becomes “feet”, but not for a host of other examples that came to mind: boot, hoop, tool, fool, etc. i think it’s incorrect to call it a rule., raymond chuaon august 27, 2008 2:46 pm very well written. i’ll share this post with my students. 🙂, sad manon august 27, 2008 8:24 pm what is wft, rofl ,ffs , lol, i cant find them in any dictionary., chrison august 27, 2008 8:32 pm me love good grammar guy. hulk smash!, sorted philon august 27, 2008 8:40 pm greta article. cool, classy, concise., yuenon august 27, 2008 9:38 pm i print this post to pdf to read it daily for writing tips., brandonon august 28, 2008 12:45 am great post, very good info 🙂 i’m bookmarking it, thanks again, edwinon august 28, 2008 4:05 am “just ask to a friend…” is that a typo in the first sentence??, mayor of kentonvilleon august 28, 2008 6:21 am thank you, very interesting article, kenon august 28, 2008 4:46 pm what? not a word about dangling participles? ok i’ll explain it: a dangling modifier is one that does not actually modify the subject that it follows. the object it modifies is found in the sentence but it is not followed by the modifier. “one morning i shot an elephant in my pajamas. how he got into my pajamas i don’t know.” though, logically, the person making the statement would have been wearing the pajamas, the line plays on the grammatical possibility that the elephant was wearing his pajamas, owing to its misplaced modifier., markon august 28, 2008 5:49 pm excellent!!, tova teitelbaumon august 29, 2008 7:54 am ecellent. i am astounded how little college students know about grammar and the role it plays in comprehension and precise communication, prof. grammaron august 30, 2008 1:28 am the claim is made here that “understanding the basic grammar rules is essential for communicating efficiently, but most of us have forgotten those concepts years ago.” not quite true. we humans are born with an instinct for picking up thousands of grammar rules unconsciously, and thus, by the time we are 6 or 7, before we attend school, we verbally communicate nearly perfectly with friends and family. no rules have been consciously learned, and these “wired-in” rules are never forgotten. what the author means, i think, is that it is interesting and fruitful to spend time becoming consciously aware of the structure of language in order to become more sophisticated users of it, especially when it comes to writing., rezaon august 31, 2008 2:57 pm my name is reza, rezaon august 31, 2008 2:58 pm hello how are you, rezaon august 31, 2008 3:00 pm yes, henry cruzon september 01, 2008 8:22 am great stuff! i am not amazed that college students don’t know basic grammar. it’s an awful lot to store, and isn’t that why they made great sites like this…to dust off the brain cells. henry cruz, robin cooperon september 01, 2008 1:14 pm nice post. you might want to change the possessive adjective classifications slightly. nobody has said “thy” except when quoting the bible or similarly ancient material for a long time. make it “your” instead., lord allenon september 04, 2008 1:58 pm this is great! thanks! this will help me in my writing career. it’s sad to know that there are still teachers that don’t know what they are teaching. for example, i had a teacher who said that you should use “a” if the first letter of the succeeding word is a consonant and “an” if the first letter of the succeeding word is a vowel. but that’s not always the case. you don’t say “a hour”, right? she needs enlightenment, danielle. lol., david porteron september 05, 2008 8:12 pm what a wonderful resource. you should offer it as a .pdf somewhere on your blog. i suspect this, with a few properly placed commercials, might make its way around the web and bring additional value to your blog. it seems too valuable to leave trapped in this post., prosperon september 09, 2008 10:24 am give me the verbs to be with all tences and pronous, leahon september 09, 2008 3:21 pm this page has been quite informative however, i still have a question. is “if i were you, i would go.” always correct? is there ever a case where one would say “if i was you…”?, abraham manoon september 27, 2008 4:14 pm excellent ! clear and concise. this article provides very useful information. thanks a lot ! – abraham, melon october 02, 2008 10:01 am hi to all the grammarian out there! i’m a 2nd year student,majoring english may i ask you to kindly make a response on my research paper ? i have to find any problem with has a concern in grammar and find also an answer on that particular problem..for example, we defined verb that is denotes a state of being but how come that the verb in this sentence denotes a state of being?, melon october 02, 2008 10:10 am hi to all the grammarian out there! may i ask you to kindly make an answer to my research paper? i’m a 2nd college student, majoring english. i have to find any problem that has a concern in grammar and give an answer to that particular problem. for example, she is beautiful. we defined verb that is denotes a state of being. but how come that “is” in that sentence denotes a state of being? i will appreciate any help that you can give to me …thank you in advance., vickyon october 04, 2008 8:17 am thank you so much. you really educate me. am lacking behind before but now there is improvement even my teacher comfirm it., christianon october 07, 2008 7:59 am thank you for sharing information!, ningon october 22, 2008 7:32 am i would like to say that grammar is very important to improve our skill especially in writing and speaking., wasseemon november 04, 2008 11:33 pm really ,i am happy for that ,i like studying english ,i am learning now in special institute ,until now oky, i need to practice more and speak too ,i have dreamt for along time to visit uk or usa maybe that impossible for many reasons :first money…… i would like to be your friend from that web,i don’t know if you expect me,by the way i have finished 3rd level in syria, am i good ? thank you…. for your eforts, atif elahion november 09, 2008 5:29 pm the way grammar is written,and the sequence especially of it ,is intresting.it’s enough for urgent learners that every thing is right here…………..thankx, cutieon november 09, 2008 11:07 pm this really helped me with my english thankyou for helping i used to have a 36% now i have an 92% thanks bye bye, jumarnoon november 21, 2008 4:27 am this resume can be one of my reference to learn and teach english, v.s.yogeethaon december 12, 2008 10:01 am this is very useful for each and every individual to improve the lanuguage skills. it is very healthy stuff for the teachers, students and for other members. i have confident that i can speak english fluently., antashon january 02, 2009 11:51 am really very good article and a piece no a huge piece of good grammaticle information. thanks for the info., lillieon january 04, 2009 11:00 pm this helpes me alot for my english homework. it also helped me study for a test., shannonon february 06, 2009 12:27 pm i hate greammar but i love to write!!!!!!!!!!!!!, saifon february 20, 2009 8:40 am can anyone help me in knowing: when you write a letter, in salutation, can we use capital a for all. example: dear all., sanjoyon april 13, 2009 4:26 pm i feel very intersting to speak english., kassieon april 19, 2009 1:14 am thnx sooo much…this really helped me!, mariaon april 19, 2009 7:27 am thnx…this really helped me on my homework and made my studying and test results alot better…thnx again…, melissaon may 04, 2009 9:30 am hello. i’m interesting about the english grammar’s because i want to improve my skill and help me how to improve my.speaking,writing, listening. thank you so much. please reply me., khaleel ahmedon june 14, 2009 9:09 am it is very useful and brusy up my memories. thank you very much for your article, christine segalon june 14, 2009 1:06 pm which is correct? this is photo of mike and i, at the beach or this is a photo of mike and me, at the beach., rodon july 01, 2009 3:46 pm this is the kind of stuff we need to know to avoid english teaching myths at least in my country we call it spanglish, business writing, book reviews, mistakes, expressions, fiction writing, freelance writing, general, grammar, grammar 101, misused words, punctuation, spelling, style, vocabulary, writing basics, usage review, writing quizzes, home, archives, exercises, about, contact, privacy policy]