[not so sure? in this case our subscription is right for you! writing clear, correct english is a challenge, and it can affect your personal and professional life immensely. our writing tips and exercises will keep your english sharp and help you avoid the most common mistakes., "i kick myself for not printing out the writing tips each time you send one; they are the most useful grammar tips i have ever encountered. i look forward to reading every email you send." jameshallowell.com, video producer, "daily writing tips are invaluable. the few cents i spend a day for the subscription are a great investment. even though i was an english major and teacher, i still need and value the daily gems that the gang at dwt send me." craig copland, book author, "i am a winemaker—but i write a lot of tasting notes! daily writing tips is the best (and easiest) way i’ve found to stay current on grammar." jeff pisoni, owner at pisoni vineyards, "think of dailywritingtips as a multiple vitamin for language skills. take it every day, and you will think more clearly and write better." deborah hendrick, freelance writer, "i paid for a year's worth of daily writing tips while i was studying for the sat as a way to improve my writing skills. currently i am attending duke university and dwt did a lot to help me get accepted to my dream school." rikki k., student at duke university, maeve maddox holds a b.a. (honours) in english from the university of london and a phd in comparative literature from the university of arkansas at fayetteville. she has several published books and was the editor of dailywritingtips.com for seven years., mark nichol is a former instructor at berkeley university, california. he has worked as a writer and editor for many high-profile publications and companies, including wired magazine and the george lucas educational foundation., every day we'll deliver to your email inbox a useful writing tip and a set of writing exercises. topics range from grammar to style, punctuation, spelling and vocabulary. it's a fun way to improve your writing skills in just 5 minutes a day!, we require a valid credit card for the free trial because all the material and bonuses will be available right after you join. you can cancel anytime you want by simply replying to any of our emails, so there is no risk in trying it out!, all but one of the following sentences demonstrate incorrect style for treatment of possessives according to the chicago manual of style; revise sentences as necessary., rules for possessives are complex, and they vary according to different style guides. determine which style is appropriate for the kind of writing you do, and study a handbook appropriate to that kind of writing., 1. i walked over to the smiths’ house. the house is occupied by the smiths, not the smith, so the name must be treated as a plural possessive., 2. our hostess’s nerves are shot. words ending in "s" are not exempt from requiring an "s" after the possessive apostrophe., 3. i went to my aunt and uncle’s anniversary celebration. when a pair of nouns is considered a single entity or group, only the second noun should be in the possessive form. (however, when two closely linked nouns are nevertheless clearly associated with distinct referents, both nouns should be in the possessive form, as in "i researched my aunt’s and uncle’s family backgrounds."), 4. she made it onto the girls’ basketball team. when a word can take either a possessive form (in this case, girls’, as in "for girls") or an attributive form (here, girls, as in "of girls"), the possessive form is usually more appropriate., 5. i sent flowers to her on mother’s day. holiday names ending in s vary as whether they are attributive (veterans day), singular possessive (saint patrick’s day), or plural possessive (april fools’ day). celebrations of mothers and fathers are singular possessive, so this sentence was correct originally., in this exercise, decide whether each compound noun should be styled as open, hyphenated or closed compound, according to merriam-webster's collegiate dictionary., logic is not a reliable factor in how a compound noun is styled; it's best to always look a term up to be sure that you are treating it correctly. compound nouns often evolve from open to hyphenated to closed, but sometimes the intermediate stage is skipped, and sometimes a term remains open or hyphenated (so far)., 1. air conditioner, 2. backstory, 3. check-in, 4. lifelike, 5. mind-set, rewrite the following sentences removing all verb errors., 1. if i had known you were going, i would have gone too. when an "if clause" is used to express something that did not happen, the verb in the "if clause" will be "had," not "would.", 2. the driver didn’t see the dog lying in the road. as the dog was prostrate or reclining in the road, the intransitive verb "lying" is called for., 3. when i was in hollywood, i saw three celebrities walking on sunset boulevard. the irregular verb "to see" has the forms see, saw, (have) seen. the simple past is saw., 4. no, you cannot play video games until you’ve written that thank-you note to your grandmother. "you’ve is a contraction of "you have." the helping verb "have" is used with the past participle form of the verb. "wrote" is the simple past; "written" is the past participle: "have written.", 5. the farmer discovered that a large percentage of his crop was ruined by boll weevils. the word percentage is singular and takes the singular verb was., in each sentence, choose the correct word from the pair of similar terms. (if both words possibly can be correct, choose the more plausible one.), if we rise early enough, we can be ______ down the road by noon., in an integrated curriculum, subjects are not dissected and separated into _____ chunks., she wanted to __________ that the boat was safe., george has the _____ to become a superb chess player., i work so hard during the week, i just want to ___ around on the weekend., 1. if we rise early enough, we can be farther down the road by noon., farther always refers to distance. further may refer to distance, but is the only choice for the meaning "to a greater extent or degree." example: the teacher will go further into the explanation in tomorrow’s lesson., 2. in an integrated curriculum, subjects are not dissected and separated into discrete chunks., the chunks in question are discrete (meaning "separate"), not discreet (meaning "prudent" or "unobtrusive")., 3. she wanted to ensure that the boat was safe., to ensure is to guarantee; to insure is to indemnify against loss., 4. george has the capability to become a superb chess player., capability refers to power or ability. the literal use of capacity is to refer to a container’s ability to hold something, for example, "the capacity of a gas tank.", 5. i work so hard during the week, i just want to lie around on the weekend., lay is transitive and should therefore have an object: "lay the book on the table." lie is intransitive; it does not take an object., below, you'll find a list of universities that mention or recommend our articles on their website or in their style guide., i have no trouble waking up early in the morning now, knowing my writing tip will be there. i'm buying a subscription for my mother (a retired school teacher) and my daughter, who is applying for graduate school. it will be such an enjoyable way for her to learn., thank you so much for the new and improved daily writing tips pro. it is even better than the original, and so much worth the money spent., i continue to appreciate your exercises in these emails. i really enjoy doing them, and the number of answers i get right has improved. i now find myself subconsciously correcting other people’s emails as i read them., i would like to take this opportunity to say thank you for a great service. i feel that my writing skills have improve immensely since i started receiving dwt. cheers for that!, what you supplied has far exceeded my expectations, both in content and value for money. i congratulate you on a job well done., as a translator, i am constantly worried about clarity and conciseness. the dailywritingtips articles and exercises never cease to challenge me, keeping my writing sharp and error-free., please let me express my heartfelt thanks for the hard work you do, putting these articles and exercises together. they are extremely helpful and i love reading through them. i just hope i can store the information in my brain and bring it out when needed. love dailywritingtips!, when i heard about the site i expected it to be like the many iffy grammar websites on the internet, but another editor recommended it to me and i gave it a shot. i find it stands out because of the thoroughness and evenhandedness of the commentary, as well as the aptness of the examples (not always easy!). as the editor-in-chief of the medium and a long-time copy editor, i strongly recommend to my staff that they subscribe. even for those who know their stuff, the reminder is always appreciated., for the past eighteen months i've received valuable advice via the daily writing tips subscription. i now have a special folder available, so that when i have a query in my writing, i can quickly scan the subjects and find answers which, in almost every situation, solve my problem. the presentation is to the point and examples presented are relevant to today's use of prose. like most writers i am always in a hurry, rushing to meet a deadline and need an immediate 'fix'. this works for me., i’ve subscribed to and relished dailywritingtips for quite some time. the choice of topics is almost always imaginative and frequently provocative—in other words, it forces the subscribers to think, a rare and very pleasant tonic indeed for all readers., i am a college professor and i am always in search of easily accessible resources that will help students improve their writing abilities. dailywritingtips is the best one-stop site i have found that gives aid exactly where dictionaries and style-guides leave gaps., dailywritingtips is one of the very few email subscriptions that i truly welcome into my inbox. it covers a wide spectrum of topics that contribute to good writing. though i'm not a novelist or a poet, i find that effective writing, more than merely managing to get the point across, can often help in my day to day life. if i want to inspire confidence and trust in a proposal to a client, or if i want to write an email that persuades some corporate customer service rep to see things my way, i have often found the tips from dailywritingtips make me a more effective communicator., i have been for a long time now a subscriber of the dailywritingtips articles, which i receive in my mail day in, day out. being a certified translator of english, i enjoy reading the tips, and i can sincerely recommend it to anyone who enjoys delving into the peculiarities of the english language., i begin my day and recharge my creativity with dailywritingtips for informative explanations about points pertaining to grammar, punctuation, word usage, editing and writing style. dwt is a great resource that’s not too complicated or overly technical., i came across some daily writing tips and realized that the material would be of great help to my career. that's why i decided to subscribe, and now the emails i receive are part of my daily studies., i would like to thank you very much for your wonderful emails. it's not just that they point out some rules of correct usage, but more that they increase overall perception of the language as a whole. thank you for the light you shine onto the english language., one of the fastest ways to improve your writing skills is to free yourself from the most common english mistakes, and this ebook has you covered!, understanding the english language parts of speech (e.g., nouns, pronouns, adjectives, verbs, adverbs, prepositions and conjunctions) and the grammar rules for using them is essential for writing clearly and effectively., written by daniel scocco, founder of dailywritingtips.com, this ebook covers everything you need to know to create a successful and profitable blog or website., every day we'll deliver to your email inbox a useful writing tip and a set of writing exercises. topics range from grammar to style, punctuation, spelling and vocabulary. it's a fun way to improve your writing skills in just 5 minutes a day!, we require a valid credit card for the free trial because all the material and bonuses will be available right after you join. you can cancel anytime you want by simply replying to any of our emails, so there is no risk in trying it out!, copyright © 2007 - 2020 daily writing tips . all right reserved][should you write master's degree or masters degree? between you and i or between you and me? can you use a preposition at the end of a sentence? should all introductory phrases be separated with a comma?, join over 10,000 subscribers! here's what some of them said about our service:, our website was mentioned on the following publications:, who created the writing tips and exercises?, here's what you get as a subscriber, try it free for 15 days, then only $2.40 per month! (paid as $29/year), test drive the writing exercises, exercise 1: possessives, exercise 2: compound nouns, exercise 3: verb errors, exercise 4: confused words, get unlimited access to our advanced grammar and style checker, want to know who else trusts dailywritingtips.com?, want more testimonials from our subscribers? there you go:, we have some exciting bonuses to give you right after you join, bonus #1: "100 writing mistakes to avoid", bonus #2: "basic english grammar", bonus #3: "make money blogging", try it free for 15 days, then only $2.40 per month! (paid as $29/year), frequently asked questions]english and grammar tips newsletter - subscribe to daily writing tips[daily writing tip:, daily exercise:, grammar and style checker:, 800+ exercise archive:, 3 bonus ebooks:, i walked over to the smiths’ house., our hostess’s nerves are shot., i went to my aunt and uncle’s anniversary celebration., she made it onto the girls’ basketball team., i sent flowers to her on mother’s day., air conditioner, backstory, check-in, lifelike, mind-set, if i had known you were going, i would have gone too., the driver didn’t see the dog lying in the road., when i was in hollywood, i saw three celebrities walking on sunset boulevard., no, you cannot play video games until you’ve written that thank-you note to your grandmother., the farmer discovered that a large percentage of his crop was ruined by boll weevils., farther, discrete, ensure, capability, lie][daily writing tip: you will receive our writing tips directly in your email inbox. topics covered include english grammar, spelling, punctuation, style and vocabulary!, daily exercise: along with the writing tip your emails will contain a set of interactive writing exercises, with the goal of helping you practice and absorb the concepts covered., grammar and style checker: our advanced grammar and style checker will identify mistakes beyond simple misspellings and offer suggestions to fix them., 800+ exercise archive: apart from receiving a new exercise daily you'll get access to our archives. there you'll find over 800 exercises on a wide range of topics, and you can go through them anytime you want., 3 bonus ebooks: right after joining you will be able to download our bonus ebooks, including the highly popular "100 writing mistakes to avoid.", , i walked over to the smith’s house., our hostess’ nerves are shot., i went to my aunt’s and uncle’s anniversary celebration., she made it onto the girls basketball team., i sent flowers to her on mother’s day., air conditioner air-conditioner airconditioner, back story back-story backstory, check in check-in checkin, life like life-like lifelike, mind set mind-set mindset, if i would have known you were going, i would have gone too., the driver didn’t see the dog laying in the road., when i was in hollywood, i seen three celebrities walking on sunset boulevard., no, you cannot play video games until you’ve wrote that thank-you note to your grandmother., the farmer discovered that a large percentage of his crop were ruined by boll weevils., if we rise early enough, we can be ______ down the road by noon. further farther, in an integrated curriculum, subjects are not dissected and separated into _____ chunks. discrete discreet, she wanted to __________ that the boat was safe. insure ensure, george has the _____ to become a superb chess player. capability capacity, i work so hard during the week, i just want to ___ around on the weekend. lie lay, california institute of technology, washington state university, university of arizona, university of pennsylvania, university of oklahoma, university of southern california, florida state university, university of toledo, miami university, rice university, university of alaska, university of toronto, university of texas, university of houston, medical college of wisconsin, pennstate university, southern illinois university, central michigan university, southern utah university, minnesota state university, university of missouri, santa clara university, , home, advertise, archives, contact, privacy policy]