[summer vacation is just around the corner, but the learning doesn’t have to stop! help students retain everything they’ve learned this past year and keep them on track for the fall with our summer resources:…, the results are in for the spring learning showdown! over 33,000 classes from around the world joined in the competition this year, answering a heap of questions and expanding their knowledge all throughout april. congratulations…, good news, teachers: we’ve done the lesson planning for you! ixl skill plans provide the exact skills you need all in one place, so you can just grab and go.  these ready-made plans help with…, are you passionate about ixl and inspiring fellow educators? the ixl ambassador program celebrates passionate ixl teachers and administrators who want to share their success, innovation, and creativity with educators across the country.  last year,…, whether you want to introduce new material, revisit a past topic, or encourage students to learn independently, ixl lessons make it easy for you and your class to get started! like mini study guides, lessons…, if you already use ixl’s mobile app, you know that the built-in scratchpad is a favorite feature for learners. with the scratchpad, students can work through problems by writing on the screen. now learners can…, we’re in the home stretch to this year’s spring learning showdown, and the competition isn’t slowing down! see which classes are topping the charts as we head into the contest’s finale. results are as of…, are you following ixl on social media? if not, you’re missing out on a ton of fun extras!  ixl’s social media pages are always updated with helpful resources. by following along, you’ll get access to:…, since the spring learning showdown started on april 1, classes around the world have shown tremendous competitive spirit and their passion for learning! check out which classes are leading the pack in our first contest…, students can now play games right on ixl! our comprehensive curriculum includes more than 90 educational games for pre-k through 2nd grade, offering our youngest learners a fun new way to level-up their knowledge. see…, when ritenour school district began their journey in competency-based learning (cbl), they needed a tool that would empower students to work independently towards learning goals while making it easier for teachers to monitor progress and…, when alicia granger’s high school math students started the 2021-22 school year, many of them were starting from behind after two interrupted school years. to help them succeed in algebra ii, statistics, pre-calculus, and calculus,…][official blog, in the classroom, 4 ways to set up for a summer of learning, ixl spring learning showdown 2022: winners!, take a day off from lesson planning, join the growing ixl ambassador community!, ixl lessons: your go-to instructional tool, scratchpad now available on desktop!, ixl spring learning showdown 2022: leaderboard #2, follow ixl on social media!, ixl spring learning showdown 2022: leaderboard #1, new: play games on ixl!, student-directed learning with ixl leads to gains for all, mastering high school math with ixl]in the classroom archives - ixl official blog[][at home, in the classroom, life at ixl, ixl updates, membership, help center, contact ixl, , , , , ]