[the results are in for the spring learning showdown! over 33,000 classes from around the world joined in the competition this year, answering a heap of questions and expanding their knowledge all throughout april., congratulations to the top three classes in each grade band, who will receive a $250 gift card that they can spend on individual prizes for students, a pizza party, or something else fun to celebrate their well-earned win!, without further ado, here is the final contest leaderboard:,  ,  , thank you to all of the classes who participated in the contest. you did an awesome job practicing!, stay tuned for updates on ixl’s upcoming summer contest by following us on facebook, twitter, instagram, and pinterest., for more information about the spring learning showdown, check out the contest faqs in the contest announcement blog and the official rules at the bottom of the contest registration page. if you have additional questions, please email us at contests@ixl.com., track and showcase progress like never before with ixl’s student summary report! as the newest addition to ixl analytics, this report provides all the data teachers need on individual students—all in one place.  you now…, summer vacation is just around the corner, but the learning doesn’t have to stop! help students retain everything they’ve learned this past year and keep them on track for the fall with our summer resources:…, good news, teachers: we’ve done the lesson planning for you! ixl skill plans provide the exact skills you need all in one place, so you can just grab and go.  these ready-made plans help with…][official blog, ixl spring learning showdown 2022: winners!, prek-4th grade, 5th-8th grade, 9th-12th grade, share this post:, tagged as:, pin this post!, post navigation, follow us, get ixl news, related posts, new to ixl analytics: the student summary report!, 4 ways to set up for a summer of learning, take a day off from lesson planning]ixl spring learning showdown 2022: winners! - ixl official blog[prek-4th grade, 5th-8th grade, 9th-12th grade][at home, in the classroom, life at ixl, ixl updates, , , , , , , , , , , new to ixl analytics: the student summary report! track and showcase progress like never before with ixl’s student summary report! as the newest addition to ixl analytics, this report provides all the data teachers need on individual students—all in one place.  you now… may 9, 2022 ixl updates read more, 4 ways to set up for a summer of learning summer vacation is just around the corner, but the learning doesn’t have to stop! help students retain everything they’ve learned this past year and keep them on track for the fall with our summer resources:… may 9, 2022 in the classroom read more, take a day off from lesson planning good news, teachers: we’ve done the lesson planning for you! ixl skill plans provide the exact skills you need all in one place, so you can just grab and go.  these ready-made plans help with… may 3, 2022 in the classroom read more, membership, help center, contact ixl, , , , , ]