[direct messages are the private side of twitter. you can use direct messages to have private conversations with people about tweets and other content..&&  .&& the basics.&& to send a direct message from twitter for ios.&& to send a direct message from twitter for android.&& to send a direct message via the web.&& to pin direct messages.&& to search direct messages.&& to snooze direct message notifications.&& to report a direct message or conversation.&& to share a tweet via direct message.&& to receive direct messages from anyone.&& to review direct message requests.&& to disable direct message read receipts.&& to send and receive direct messages on your phone via sms.&& some important things to know about direct messages.&& the basics.&& *note: for some people who create a new account on twitter.&& your account settings may already be set to receive message requests from other people you dont follow. these requests are kept separate from your other dms until you accept them. you can accept the request to continue the conversation. to disable message requests.&& go to your settings. .&& to send a direct message from twitter for ios.&& to delete a direct message or conversation:  .&& to manage a group conversation:  .&& to delete a direct message or conversation:  .&& to manage a group conversation:  .&& to send a direct message via the web.&& note: to start a new line in a message.&& press the shift and enter keys at the same time. pressing only the enter key will send your message.  .&& to delete a direct message or conversation:  .&& to manage a group conversation:  .&& revisit conversations by searching keywords and names in the direct messages search bar..&& navigate to your dms and tap or click on the search bar. from there.&& type in keywords and names of the conversations youre looking for and messages.&& groups.&& and people with those keywords or names will populate. to go directly to the message.&& tap or click on the search result. .&& note: currently.&& searching images or gifs to find dm conversations is not available. .&& this feature lets you pin your favorite conversations to the top of your dm inbox so you can find them easily. pin up to six conversations at a time..&& navigate to your direct message inbox..&& swipe from left to right on the conversation you want to keep at the top of your dm inbox..&& tap the pin  icon..&& your pinned message will now appear at the top of your inbox. pinned conversations appear from top to bottom in the order that you pin them..&&  .&& to remove a conversation from your pinned conversations list.&& swipe left to right and tap the pin    icon again..&& navigate to your direct message inbox..&& hold down on the conversation you want to keep at the top of your dm inbox..&& tap the pin  icon..&& your pinned message will now appear at the top of your inbox. pinned conversations appear from top to bottom in the order that you pin them..&&  .&& to remove a conversation from your pinned conversations list.&& hold down and tap the pin  icon again..&& navigate to your direct message inbox..&& go to the conversation you want to keep at the top of your dm inbox and tap or click on the more  icon..&& select pin conversation. .&& your pinned message will now appear at the top of your inbox. pinned conversations appear from top to bottom in the order that you pin them..&&  .&& to remove a conversation from your pinned conversations list.&& tap or click on the more  icon to unpin the conversation..&& you can snooze notifications for direct messages for 1 hour.&& 8 hours.&& 1 week.&& or forever. when you snooze a direct message conversation.&& you will still receive new messages.&& but you won’t receive a notification each time. note: unless the snooze mentions setting is enabled.&& you will still receive notifications when you are directly mentioned in a group conversation that you are a part of..&& how to snooze from within a direct message conversation on twitter.com.&& twitter for ios.&& and twitter for android:  .&& how to snooze from your direct message inbox on twitter for ios:  .&& how to snooze from your direct message inbox on twitter for android:  .&& how to snooze from a direct message push notification:  .&& to report a direct message or conversation.&& you can report an individual message or an entire conversation. learn how to report a tweet or direct message for violations..&& sharing a tweet via direct message is a great way to spark a conversation with a group of friends. .&& you can receive messages from anyone if you check the box next to allow messages requests from everyone in your privacy and safety settings on twitter.com. you can also adjust this setting via the twitter for ios or twitter for android apps. if you enable this option.&& anyone can message you and add you to group conversations.  .&& to change your settings using twitter for ios:  .&& to change your settings using twitter for android:  .&& to change your settings using twitter for twitter.com:  .&& note: disabling the receive messages from anyone setting will not prevent you from continuing to receive direct messages from someone you dont follow if you have a prior conversation already established with that person. you will need to either report the conversation or block the account to stop receiving direct messages from that person..&& if you have the receive messages from anyone setting enabled.&& incoming messages from people you don’t follow will appear as requests in the messages tab. new group conversations that you’re added to by people you don’t follow will also appear in requests. entering the conversation.&& you will be asked to either delete or accept the message. accepting the message will allow you to engage with the person.&& and will move the message to your inbox. please note that they will not know you have seen the message until you have accepted their request..&& deleting the message will remove it from your inbox. note: deleting a message will not prevent that account from sending you messages in the future. you will always have the option to block the account or report the conversation. blocked accounts cannot send you messages.&& unless you unblock them..&& accepting the message will allow you to engage with the person. all media will be hidden prior to accepting the message. if you wish to view the hidden media.&& click or tap view media..&& note: the option to accept or delete messages and view media from someone new that you dont follow is only available on the twitter for ios and android apps.&& and twitter.com..&& additionally.&& by default.&& we filter lower-quality requests from the requests section of your inbox for the twitter for ios and android app. when enabled.&& the quality filter for message requests hides conversation requests we think may be lower quality. you will not receive notifications for filtered requests.&& but these messages will still be viewable behind the low quality filter that exists at the bottom of the requests section of your inbox..&& to disable or enable the quality filter for message requests:.&& how to filter graphic media in direct messages.&& the filter is enabled by default and will work in this way:.&& note: if you have the allow message requests from everyone setting enabled under the direct messages section of your privacy and safety settings.&& it is possible to disable and enable the quality filter from your privacy settings. this feature is only available currently on ios and android devices..&& direct messages feature read receipts so you know when people have seen your messages. when someone sends you a direct message and your show read receipts setting is enabled.&& everyone in the conversation will know when you’ve seen it. this setting is enabled by default but you can turn it off (or back on) through your settings at any time. if you turn off the show read receipts setting.&& you will not be able to see read receipts from other people..&& read receipts are only viewable on the twitter for ios and android apps.&& and twitter.com. please note.&& however.&& that read receipts will also be sent when you view direct messages on mobile web.  .&& to disable or enable using twitter for ios:  .&& to disable or enable using twitter for android:  .&& to disable or enable via twitter.com:  .&& note: for conversations that appear under requests.&& the sender(s) will not be able to see if you have read their direct messages unless you accept the conversation..&& if your twitter account is connected to your mobile phone.&& you can send and receive direct messages via sms..&& note: a note about direct message failures: please be careful to ensure that direct messages you send via sms are under 160 characters.&& including the d command and username. your service provider may split sms messages greater than 160 characters into multiple sms messages. in this case.&& the second and any subsequent sms messages will post as public tweets because they don’t begin with the appropriate text command (d username) that tells twitter they are direct messages.&& as the first sms message did..&& check out the most frequently asked questions about direct messages..&& by using twitter’s services you agree to our cookies use. we use cookies for purposes including analytics.&& personalisation.&& and ads.][about direct messages, ,  ,  , to search direct messages, to pin direct messages, to snooze direct message notifications,  , to share a tweet via direct message,  , to receive direct messages from anyone,  , to review direct message requests  , to disable direct message read receipts  , to send and receive direct messages on your phone via sms  , some important things to know about direct messages  , need more information?  ]how to direct message (dm) on twitter | twitter help[][you can start a private conversation or create a group conversation with anyone who follows you., anyone you do not follow can send you a direct message if: you have opted in to receive direct messages from anyone* or; you have previously sent that person a direct message., you have opted in to receive direct messages from anyone* or;, you have previously sent that person a direct message., anyone in a conversation can send direct messages to the group. everyone in a group can see all messages, even if everyone doesn’t follow each other., in group conversations, anyone in the conversation can add other participants. newly added participants won’t see the prior history of the conversation., some accounts, particularly businesses on twitter, have enabled a setting to receive direct messages from anyone. you can send a direct message to these accounts even if they don’t follow you., in both group and one-on-one conversations, you cannot be in a conversation with an account you block., tap the envelope icon. you’ll be directed to your messages., tap the message icon   to create a new message., in the address box, enter the name(s) or @username(s) of the people you wish to send a message to. a group message can include up to 50 people., enter your message., in addition to text, you can include a photo, video, or gif with your direct message. from the message compose bar, or the plus icon  you can access the following options: tap the photo icon to take a photo or record a video, or attach one from your device gallery. you have the option to edit your photo before sending your message. tap on the photo to bring up editing screen where you can enhance, crop, and add filters. when you are done editing, tap save. learn more about advanced photo options. to include an animated gif in your message, tap the gif icon  to search for and select a file from the media library., tap the photo icon to take a photo or record a video, or attach one from your device gallery. you have the option to edit your photo before sending your message. tap on the photo to bring up editing screen where you can enhance, crop, and add filters. when you are done editing, tap save. learn more about advanced photo options., to include an animated gif in your message, tap the gif icon  to search for and select a file from the media library., to send your message, tap the paper airplane icon , to delete a direct message, tap and hold the message and select delete message from the menu that pops up., to delete an entire conversation from your inbox, swipe left on the conversation and tap the trash can icon  you can also delete an entire conversation by tapping the information icon  and selecting delete conversation from the conversation info page., when you delete a direct message or conversation (sent or received), it is deleted from your account only. others in the conversation will still be able to see direct messages or conversations that you have deleted.  , to quickly access the list of conversation participants, tap the profile photo of the group conversation from your inbox. , from within a group conversation, tap on the information icon  to bring up a settings page., settings details: tap edit to update the group conversation profile photo and name. to change the photo, tap the camera icon in the photo to choose from library or take new photo. tap save to update.  note: once you update the photo, you’ll have the option to remove current photo, view current photo, choose from library, or take new photo. tap add members to add people to the conversation. drag the slider next to snooze conversation to snooze notifications for 1 hour, 8 hours, 1 week, or forever.  drag the slider next to snooze mentions to control whether you will receive notifications when you are mentioned in a group conversation. please note that, unless this feature is enabled, you will receive notifications when you are directly mentioned in a conversation, even if you have enabled the snooze conversation feature. additionally, you must be a participant in a group conversation to receive mention notifications for that conversation. to report the group conversation, tap report conversation. to remove yourself from the group conversation, tap leave conversation. , tap edit to update the group conversation profile photo and name. to change the photo, tap the camera icon in the photo to choose from library or take new photo. tap save to update.  note: once you update the photo, you’ll have the option to remove current photo, view current photo, choose from library, or take new photo., tap add members to add people to the conversation., drag the slider next to snooze conversation to snooze notifications for 1 hour, 8 hours, 1 week, or forever. , drag the slider next to snooze mentions to control whether you will receive notifications when you are mentioned in a group conversation. please note that, unless this feature is enabled, you will receive notifications when you are directly mentioned in a conversation, even if you have enabled the snooze conversation feature. additionally, you must be a participant in a group conversation to receive mention notifications for that conversation., to report the group conversation, tap report conversation., to remove yourself from the group conversation, tap leave conversation. , tap the envelope icon. you’ll be directed to your messages., tap the message icon  to create a new message., in the address box, enter the name(s) or @username(s) of the people you wish to send a message to. a group message can include up to 50 people., enter your message., in addition to text, you can include a photo, video, or gif via direct message. tap the photo icon  to take a photo or record a video, or attach one from your device gallery. you have the option to edit your photo through your twitter for ios or twitter for android app before sending your message. tap on the photo to bring up editing screen where you can enhance, crop, and add filters. when you are done editing, tap save. learn more about advanced photo options. to include an animated gif in your message, tap the gif icon  to search for and select a file from the media library., tap the photo icon  to take a photo or record a video, or attach one from your device gallery. you have the option to edit your photo through your twitter for ios or twitter for android app before sending your message. tap on the photo to bring up editing screen where you can enhance, crop, and add filters. when you are done editing, tap save. learn more about advanced photo options., to include an animated gif in your message, tap the gif icon  to search for and select a file from the media library., tap the send icon.  , to delete a direct message, tap and hold the message and select delete message from the menu that pops up., to delete an entire conversation from your inbox, tap and hold the conversation and select delete conversation. you can also delete an entire conversation by tapping the information icon  and selecting delete conversation from the conversation info page., when you delete a direct message or conversation (sent or received), it is deleted from your account only. others in the conversation will still be able to see direct messages or conversations that you have deleted.  , to quickly access the list of conversation participants, tap the profile photo of the group conversation from your inbox., from within a group conversation, tap on the information icon  to bring up a settings page., settings details: tap edit to update the group conversation profile photo and name. tap the camera icon to bring up the following photo options: view photo, camera, photo gallery, or remove photo. tap save to update. tap add members to add people to the conversation.  the creator of the group is the default admin. if the creator is no longer in the group, the first member to join the group after the admin will become the admin. as the group admin, you are able to remove members from the group. tap snooze conversation to snooze notifications for 1 hour, 8 hours, 1 week, or forever.  check the box next to snooze mentions to control whether you will receive notifications when you are mentioned in a group conversation. please note that, unless this feature is enabled, you will receive notifications when you are directly mentioned in a conversation, even if you have enabled the snooze conversation feature. additionally, you must be a participant in a group conversation to receive mention notifications for that conversation. to report the group conversation, tap report conversation. to remove yourself from the group conversation, tap leave conversation., tap edit to update the group conversation profile photo and name. tap the camera icon to bring up the following photo options: view photo, camera, photo gallery, or remove photo. tap save to update., tap add members to add people to the conversation.  the creator of the group is the default admin. if the creator is no longer in the group, the first member to join the group after the admin will become the admin. as the group admin, you are able to remove members from the group., tap snooze conversation to snooze notifications for 1 hour, 8 hours, 1 week, or forever. , check the box next to snooze mentions to control whether you will receive notifications when you are mentioned in a group conversation. please note that, unless this feature is enabled, you will receive notifications when you are directly mentioned in a conversation, even if you have enabled the snooze conversation feature. additionally, you must be a participant in a group conversation to receive mention notifications for that conversation., to report the group conversation, tap report conversation., to remove yourself from the group conversation, tap leave conversation., click messages in the left navigation bar., youll see your direct message history. click the new message icon at the top., in the address box, enter the name(s) or @username(s) of the people you wish to send a message to. a group message can include up to 50 people., click next, in the message box, you can include a photo, video, gif, or emoji via direct message:, click the photo icon to upload a photo or video., to include an animated gif in your message, tap the gif icon to search for and select a file from the media library., click the send button or press the enter key to send.   , to delete a direct message, click on the message and select delete., to leave a conversation, locate the conversation and click to open it. click the information  icon, and select leave conversation., when you delete a direct message or leave a conversation (sent or received), it is deleted from your account only. others in the conversation will still be able to see direct messages or conversations that you have deleted.  , from within a group conversation, click on the information icon  to access the conversation settings: from within the group info page, click the more icon  to access the drop-down menu. you can choose to edit group name, upload new photo, view photo, or remove photo. note: the option to view and remove the photo will be available only if a group message photo is uploaded., from within the group info page, click the more icon  to access the drop-down menu. you can choose to edit group name, upload new photo, view photo, or remove photo. note: the option to view and remove the photo will be available only if a group message photo is uploaded., under notifications, you can select to:  click snooze notifications to snooze notifications for 1 hour, 8 hours, 1 week, or forever.  click snooze mentions to control whether you will receive notifications when you are mentioned in a group conversation. please note that, unless this feature is enabled, you will receive notifications when you are directly mentioned in a conversation, even if you have enabled the snooze conversation feature. additionally, you must be a participant in a group conversation to receive mention notifications for that conversation., click snooze notifications to snooze notifications for 1 hour, 8 hours, 1 week, or forever. , click snooze mentions to control whether you will receive notifications when you are mentioned in a group conversation. please note that, unless this feature is enabled, you will receive notifications when you are directly mentioned in a conversation, even if you have enabled the snooze conversation feature. additionally, you must be a participant in a group conversation to receive mention notifications for that conversation., to report the group conversation, click report conversation., to remove yourself from the group conversation, click leave conversation.  , navigate to the direct message you’d like to snooze., click or tap into the message settings., click or tap the information icon  then select snooze notifications. , from the pop-up menu, select the snooze time interval you’d like: 1 hour, 8 hours, 1 week, or forever. , to unsnooze, click or tap the information icon, then click or tap the slider for snooze notifications.  , navigate to your direct message inbox., find the conversation you’d like to snooze., swipe left on the message and tap the notifications icon  note: you can also choose to report  or delete  a conversation when you swipe left., from the pop-up menu, select the snooze time interval you’d like: 1 hour, 8 hours, 1 week, or forever. , to unsnooze, swipe left and tap the snoozed notifications icon   , navigate to your direct message inbox., find the conversation you’d like to snooze., long-press on the message and tap snooze notifications., from the pop-up menu, select the snooze time interval you’d like: 1 hour, 8 hours, 1 week, or forever. , to unsnooze, long-press on the message and tap unsnooze notifications.  , find the direct message push notification on your mobile device’s lock screen you’d like to snooze: from the twitter for ios app: swipe left on the lock screen push notification, tap view, then tap snooze for 1 hour. from the twitter for android app: swipe down on the lock screen push notification, then tap snooze. , from the twitter for ios app: swipe left on the lock screen push notification, tap view, then tap snooze for 1 hour., from the twitter for android app: swipe down on the lock screen push notification, then tap snooze. , conversation notifications will be snoozed for one hour. , tap the navigation menu., select settings and privacy., tap privacy and safety., under direct messages, and next to allow messages requests from everyone, drag the slider to allow anyone to send you direct messages.  , in the top menu, you will either see a navigation menu icon  or your profile icon. tap whichever icon you have., select settings and privacy., tap privacy and safety., under direct messages, and next to receive messages from anyone, check the box to allow anyone to send you direct messages.  , click on the more  icon in the navigation bar., select settings and privacy., tap privacy and safety., under direct messages, and next to receive messages from anyone, check the box to allow anyone to send you direct messages.  , at the top of your requests tab, tap change settings. , in the privacy section of your message settings, toggle the slider next to quality filter., there will be a displayed warning over graphic media in dms, for both people you follow and unknown senders. additionally, if it’s from someone you don’t follow, we’ll also treat it like spam and move it to the bottom of your request inbox., if turned off, and you receive a graphic message from someone you do follow, we will show the graphic media in the same manner as any other image, video, or gif in the conversation you may receive. if it’s from someone you don’t follow, we’ll still display a warning because we do that with all media, but it won’t explicitly identify the media as potentially sensitive/graphic., in the top menu, tap your profile icon., select settings and privacy., tap privacy and safety., under direct messages, and next to show read receipts, drag the slider to turn the feature off or back on.   , in the top menu, you will either see a navigation menu icon  or your profile icon. tap whichever icon you have., select settings and privacy., tap privacy and safety., under direct messages, and next to show read receipts, uncheck the box to turn the feature off or check the box to turn back on.  , click the more   icon, then click privacy and safety., under privacy and safety and next to show read receipts, click the box to turn the feature off or click the box to turn back on., havent added your mobile phone yet? find out how to add your phone number to your account., added your mobile phone already? find out what text commands to use to send direct messages via sms., read this article about setting up your mobile preferences to learn more about how to receive direct messages via sms., when you delete a direct message or conversation (sent or received), it is deleted from your account only. others in the conversation will still be able to see direct messages or conversations that you have deleted. when you delete a group conversation, you will leave that group and will no longer be able to participate., when you share a link in a direct message, it is automatically processed and shortened to a t.co link. learn more about link shortening. please note that anyone with a t.co shortened link will be able to navigate to the destination url., when you share media in a direct message, it will be viewable by everyone in the conversation. please note that recipients may download or re-share links to media that you share in a direct message. anyone with the link to media shared in a direct message will be able to view the content.  , twitter.com, status, card validator, embed a tweet, privacy center, transparency center, about the company, twitter for good, company news, brand toolkit, jobs and internships, investors, help center, using twitter, twitter media, ads help center, managing your account, email preference center, rules and policies, contact us, developer home, documentation, forums, communities, developer blog, engineering blog, developer terms, advertise, twitter for business, resources and guides, twitter for marketers, marketing insights, brand inspiration, twitter flight school, , english, español, 日本語, 한국어, português, deutsch, türkçe, français, italiano, العربيّة, nederlands, bahasa indonesia, русский, हिंदी, עברית, 简体中文, 繁體中文, ภาษาไทย, tiếng việt, melayu, filipino, فارسی‌, dansk, suomi, svenska, norsk, polski, magyar, română, čeština, ελληνικά, українська, मराठी, தமிழ், български, català, hrvatski, српски, slovenčina, ಕನ್ನಡ, ಪಾಷ್ಟೋ, dari, , oromo, tigrinya, ok]