[the word ‘budget’ is derived from the root word ‘bougett’ which means a sack or a pouch in which papers for the presentation in parliament were carried by the british chancellor of the exchequer. these papers would have the details for the government’s financial program for the upcoming year. article 112 refers to the term ‘annual financial statement’ of expenditure and receipts of the government. in other words.&& the term ‘budget’ is the popular name used for annual financial statement mentioned in the constitution..&& .&& here are some of the points that highlight the features of budget in alignment with article 112 of the constitution of india:.&& formulation of the budget − there is various agencies involved in formulating the entire budget like finance ministry.&& comptroller and auditor general and the various administrative ministries. the formulation of budget is an 8-9 month long process where it goes through different stages and is scrutinized by various departments and the finance ministry. it is the finance ministry which consolidates the budget both on income and expenditure side..&& .&& presentation of the budget − the constitution of india highlights that the president shall with effect cause to be laid down the annual financial statement in both the houses of parliament. the lok sabha enjoys more power with respect to budget than rajya sabha as it is the lower house of representatives directly elected by the people. rule 213 of lok sabha gives the provision for the presentation of annual financial statement in the lower house in two or more parts..&& parts of the annual financial statement − the budget shall include all the aspects related expenditure of consolidated fund of india i.e. the items involved in the expenditure of the consolidated fund of india.&& the taxation proposals.&& details of the actual receipts and expenditure..&& .&& execution of the budget − at the end.&& the execution of the budget is conducted by the various ministries and departments in the direction and guidelines given by the ministry of finance. one can understand that the ministry of finance as the central agency for govt of india form the backbone in the budgetary process..&& .&& we make use of cookies to improve our user experience. by using this website.&& you agree with our cookies policy. agree learn more][what is budget? what is its significance in indian constitution?]what is budget? what is its significance in indian constitution?[formulation of the budget, presentation of the budget, parts of the annual financial statement, execution of the budget][java jsp ios html android python c programming c++ programming c# php css javascript jquery sap sap hana data structure rdbms mysql mathematics 8085 microprocessor operating system digital electronics analysis of algorithms mobile development front end web development selenium mongodb computer network general topics, java, jsp, ios, html, android, python, c programming, c++ programming, c#, php, css, javascript, jquery, sap, sap hana, data structure, rdbms, mysql, mathematics, 8085 microprocessor, operating system, digital electronics, analysis of algorithms, mobile development, front end, web development, selenium, mongodb, computer network, general topics, library, ebooks, courses, trending categories, data structure, networking, rdbms, operating system, java, ios, html, css, android, python, c programming, c++, c#, mongodb, mysql, javascript, php, selected reading, upsc ias exams notes, developers best practices, questions and answers, effective resume writing, hr interview questions, computer glossary, who is who, formulation of the budget − there is various agencies involved in formulating the entire budget like finance ministry, comptroller and auditor general and the various administrative ministries. the formulation of budget is an 8-9 month long process where it goes through different stages and is scrutinized by various departments and the finance ministry. it is the finance ministry which consolidates the budget both on income and expenditure side., presentation of the budget − the constitution of india highlights that the president shall with effect cause to be laid down the annual financial statement in both the houses of parliament. the lok sabha enjoys more power with respect to budget than rajya sabha as it is the lower house of representatives directly elected by the people. rule 213 of lok sabha gives the provision for the presentation of annual financial statement in the lower house in two or more parts., parts of the annual financial statement − the budget shall include all the aspects related expenditure of consolidated fund of india i.e. the items involved in the expenditure of the consolidated fund of india, the taxation proposals, details of the actual receipts and expenditure., execution of the budget − at the end, the execution of the budget is conducted by the various ministries and departments in the direction and guidelines given by the ministry of finance. one can understand that the ministry of finance as the central agency for govt of india form the backbone in the budgetary process., related questions & answers, what is databasemetadata in jdbc? what is its significance?, what is resultsetmetadata in jdbc? what is its significance?, what is account balance and what is its significance?, what is “rangoli’ and what is its significance?, what is an acceleration clause and what is its significance?, what is the significance of bindi in indian culture?, what are the duties of governor in indian constitution?, what are the duties of chief minister in indian constitution?, what are the duties of member of parliament in indian constitution?, what are the duties of a prime minister in indian constitution?, what is the significance mahabalipuram monuments?, what is a satellite link budget and what factors influences it?, what is the significance of hampi monuments?, what is the significance of ajanta caves?, what is the significance of bodh gaya?, print,  add notes,  bookmark this page,  report error,  suggestions, about us, terms of use, cookies policy, faqs, helping, contact]