[][apple, iphone 13 pro, oh. so. pro., iphone se, love the power. love the price., apple watch series 7, it’s our largest display yet., apple footer, shop and learn, services, account, apple store, for business, for education, for healthcare, for government, apple values, about apple]apple[][global nav open menu global nav close menu, apple, shopping bag +, apple, store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, only on apple, accessories, support, , shopping bag +, 1. get extra trade-in credit when you trade in an eligible iphone, ipad, mac, or apple watch and purchase a new apple device through may 31, 2022. the extra trade-in credit may range from $10 to $50 for iphone, $10 to $50 for ipad, $10 for mac, and $20 to $40 for apple watch. additional terms from apple or apples trade-in partners may apply. trade-in values will vary based on the condition, year, and configuration of your eligible trade-in device. not all devices are eligible for credit. you must be at least 18 years old to be eligible to trade in for credit or for an apple gift card. trade-in value may be applied toward a qualifying new device purchase, or added to an apple gift card. actual value awarded is based on receipt of a qualifying device matching the description provided when estimate was made. sales tax may be assessed on full value of a new device purchase. in-store trade-in requires presentation of a valid photo id (local law may require saving this information). offer may not be available in all stores, and may vary between in-store and online trade-in. some stores may have additional requirements. apple or its trade-in partners reserve the right to refuse or limit quantity of any trade-in transaction for any reason. more details are available from apple’s trade-in partner for trade-in and recycling of eligible devices. restrictions and limitations may apply., to access and use all the features of apple card, you must add apple card to wallet on an iphone or ipad with the latest version of ios or ipados. update to the latest version by going to settings > general > software update. tap download and install., available for qualifying applicants in the united states., apple card is issued by goldman sachs bank usa, salt lake city branch., learn more about how apple card applications are evaluated at support.apple.com/kb/ht209218., $4.99/month after free trial. only one offer per apple id and only one offer per family if you’re part of a family sharing group, regardless of the number of devices you or your family purchases. this offer is not available if you or your family have previously accepted an apple tv+ one year free offer. offer good for 3 months after eligible device activation. plan automatically renews until cancelled. restrictions and other terms apply., store, mac, ipad, iphone, watch, airpods, tv & home, ipod touch, airtag, accessories, gift cards, apple music, apple tv+, apple fitness+, apple news+, apple arcade, icloud, apple one, apple card, apple books, apple podcasts, app store, manage your apple id, apple store account, icloud.com, find a store, genius bar, today at apple, apple camp, apple store app, refurbished and clearance, financing, apple trade in, order status, shopping help, apple and business, shop for business, apple and education, shop for k-12, shop for college, apple in healthcare, health on apple watch, health records on iphone, shop for government, shop for veterans and military, accessibility, education, environment, inclusion and diversity, privacy, racial equity and justice, supplier responsibility, newsroom, apple leadership, career opportunities, investors, ethics & compliance, events, contact apple]