[below are some answers to common questions regarding tweeting with your location. learn about how to tweet with your location..&& even after you enable tweeting with your location.&& you have additional control over which tweets (and what type of location information) is shared. with this in mind:.&& note: in some areas.&& you have the option to label your tweet with a specific business.&& landmark.&& or point of interest. these places are sourced from foursquare. if you see an issue with a place.&& please report it via foursquare’s help center. if you believe that a specific tweet is abusive.&& please report it to twitter..&& by using twitter’s services you agree to our cookies use. we use cookies for purposes including analytics.&& personalisation.&& and ads.][tweet location faqs, what location information is attached to my tweets?  , what controls do i have when i attach location information to my tweets?  , what location information is displayed?  ]tweet location faqs | twitter help[][enabling precise location allows you to selectively add location information to your tweets. this feature is off by default and you will need to opt in to use it. this allows twitter to collect, store, and use your precise location, such as gps information., once youve enabled precise location, you will be able to attach a location (such as a city or neighborhood) of your choice to your tweet. simply tap the location marker while composing your tweet, and select the location you wish to tag. note: once you tweet with a location, your next tweet will automatically include a general location label. learn how to turn location off at any time., third-party applications or websites may let you tweet with location, including your precise location. we ask these developers to clearly explain what information is being shared when you use their products to tweet with location.   , tweet location is off by default, and you will need to opt in to the service., you can turn tweet location on or off at any time. , you can delete your past location data from displaying in your tweets in a single place (see this article for step-by-step instructions)., be cautious and careful about the amount of information you share online. there may be some updates where you want to share your location (the parade is starting now or a truck just spilled delicious candy all over the roadway!), and some updates where you want to keep your location private. just like you might not want to tweet your home address, please be cautious when tweeting from locations that you dont want others to see., remember that when youre opted into tweet location, suggested locations may be offered to you, but you can still choose not to share your location for individual tweets (see this article for instructions)., please familiarize yourself with our general location settings and the settings of any applications and devices you tweet with so that you are always aware of the information you share., remember, once you post something online, it’s out there for others to see.  , all geolocation information begins as a location (latitude and longitude), sent from your browser or device. twitter wont show any location information unless youve opted in to the feature, and have allowed your device or browser to transmit your coordinates to us., if you have chosen to attach location information to your tweets, your selected location label is displayed underneath the text of the tweet., on twitter.com, you can select a location label such as the name of a neighborhood or city., when you use the in-app camera on twitter for ios and android to attach a photo or video to your tweet and toggle on the option to tag your precise location, that tweet will include both the location label of your choice and your devices precise location (latitude and longitude), which can be found via api. your precise location may be more specific than the location label you select. this is helpful when sharing on-the-ground moments. note: the option to share your precise location from the in-app camera is currently available only on newer versions of twitter for ios (6.26 or later) and on newer versions of twitter for android (version 5.55 or later). , application developers are required to be up-front and obvious about whether your exact coordinates, or just the place, will be included in your tweet. when you tweet from a third-party application or mobile device, it should be clear which type of data will be included in your tweet., twitter.com, status, card validator, embed a tweet, privacy center, transparency center, about the company, twitter for good, company news, brand toolkit, jobs and internships, investors, help center, using twitter, twitter media, ads help center, managing your account, email preference center, rules and policies, contact us, developer home, documentation, forums, communities, developer blog, engineering blog, developer terms, advertise, twitter for business, resources and guides, twitter for marketers, marketing insights, brand inspiration, twitter flight school, , english, español, 日本語, 한국어, português, deutsch, türkçe, français, italiano, العربيّة, nederlands, bahasa indonesia, русский, हिंदी, עברית, 简体中文, 繁體中文, ภาษาไทย, tiếng việt, melayu, filipino, فارسی‌, dansk, suomi, svenska, norsk, polski, magyar, română, čeština, ελληνικά, українська, मराठी, தமிழ், български, català, hrvatski, српски, slovenčina, ಕನ್ನಡ, ಪಾಷ್ಟೋ, dari, , oromo, tigrinya, ok]