[find out more about how we raise and spend the donations we are given. .&& read our ethical principles guiding the icrcs partnerships with the private sector..&& the icrc is funded by voluntary contributions..&& we receive contributions from the states party to the geneva conventions (governments).&& national red cross and red crescent societies.&& supranational organizations (such as the european commission) and public and private sources. governments are our main donors: on average during the past five years.&& they contributed about 82% of the budget. but contributions remain voluntary and there is no guarantee that such contributions will last into the long-term..&& in 2020.&& the icrc is appealing for just over 2.2 billion chf. during the year.&& adjustments to this appeal are made in the form of budget extensions in response to unforeseen needs requiring increased humanitarian action..&& the budget is growing every year.&& and 2020 sees an 2.7% increase in the operational budget so that we can continue to bring aid to people in the worlds most challenging conflict hotspots. and yet.&& pressure on our resources also continues to grow.&& and we need more funds to help the increasing number of men.&& women and children around the world who find themselves caught in the crossfire of conflict..&& the icrc budget is calculated based on three factors: the humanitarian needs of the communities affected.&& our ability to deliver aid and protection to those communities.&& and a realistic assessment of what can actually be implemented..&& taken together these three factors have tended to produce highly accurate operational plans and budgets: during the last ten years.&& the icrc has averaged around a 90% implementation rate of its projected budget. our operational budget has been on the increase during the past few years. this year (2020).&& we have a budget that is almost 3% bigger than last years..&& .&& the icrc seeks to secure funding from a broad range of sources in order to have a strong financial foundation and preserve its operational independence. in addition to sustaining support from its traditional donor base.&& it is working to strengthen its engagement with new and emerging donor states.&& development actors and key areas of the private sector.&& in line with its resource mobilization strategy for 2020–2030..&& icrc expenditure is audited by an internationally-recognised firm employing stringent and recognised ifrs (international financial reporting standards) accounting standards. we have set up a system of internal and external audits whereby all key financial figures and procedures are checked..&& the external auditors assessment is published every year and shared with donors. funding and expenditure details are made public in the icrcs annual report.&& with key indicators showing what we have achieved in the field..&& moreover.&& the icrc has always been open to donors who wish to carry out their specific audits.&& whether in the field or at headquarters. this is part of our policy of being open with donors..&& national societies contribute to icrc operations in several ways: for instance.&& by supporting health activities.&& providing staff or contributing to specific activities in a country. national societies together support about 3% of the icrcs operations..&& in an emergency.&& timing is everything. the capacity to mobilize and deliver resources in the very early hours of a conflict can make all the difference for those in need. it is therefore vital that the icrc have the ability to take operational – and financial – decisions during the first phase of the response. in order to do that.&& we must be able to pre-fund operations.&& by which we mean committing resources before any funding is explicitly available..&& we are able to do this by using special funds that are not earmarked.&& which means they do not have to be used for a specific region.&& country or programme.&& thus giving us maximum flexibility in how we use them. we also use other funds that we have built up over 30 years.&& known in financial terms as reserves.&& or equity..&& when urgent needs arise we will commit these reserves – which would cover a few months of icrc operations - until donor funds for that emergency become available. it is this flexibility and this rapid response that enable the icrc to make a real difference on the ground. moreover.&& the reserves are important not only for pre-funding operations but also for covering deficits that we may face at the end of the year..&& the icrc only accepts funds from those who respect the icrcs independence and impartiality of action. this means that contributions will be used to respond to humanitarian needs on the ground – as they are assessed by the icrc. in other words.&& we will not accept donations that are very tightly earmarked and that would breach the principles of independence and impartiality. the icrc welcomes financial support from any new donors..&& that said.&& the icrcs relations with its donors are not limited to financial matters. we also engage states on issues such as the protection of people affected by armed conflict and other situations of violence and on the implementation of international humanitarian law..&& the icrc helps those affected by armed conflict and promotes compliance with international humanitarian law. read more about what we do and who we are.][the icrc’s funding and spending, the work of the icrc, subscribe to the icrc newsletter, sections, quick links, subscribe to the icrc newsletter, icrc blogs]the icrc’s funding and spending | international committee of the red cross[][english, français, español, other languagesportuguês中文العربيةрусскийdeutschitalianoother, whats new, media, the icrc’s funding and spending, the geneva conventions, ihl databases, international review of the red cross, redsafe, humanitarian law & policy blog, video newsroom, eshop, icrc library, icrc archives, icrc audiovisual archives, restoring family links, working for the icrc, reporting misconduct, fraudulent e-mails and websites, afghanistan, central african republic, democratic republic of the congo, iraq, israel and the occupied territories, lake chad, mali, myanmar, nigeria, somalia, south sudan, syria, ukraine, venezuela, yemen, chemical and biological weapons, children, detainees, migrants, new technologies and ihl, nuclear weapons, occupation, refugees and displaced persons, respect for ihl, security detention, sexual violence, terrorism and ihl, our mandate and mission, governance, president of the icrc, finances, history, the red cross and red crescent movement, fundamental principles, funds and medals, working for the icrc, events, our code of conduct, contacts, foundation for the icrc, activities addressing sexual violence building respect for the law cooperation with the national societies economic security forensic action health mine action restoring family links water and habitat, addressing sexual violence, building respect for the law, cooperation with the national societies, economic security, forensic action, health, mine action, restoring family links, water and habitat, who we help civilians children detainees internally displaced people migrants, refugees, asylum seekers missing people people with disabilities women, civilians, children, detainees, internally displaced people, migrants, refugees, asylum seekers, missing people, people with disabilities, women, thematics access to education accountability to affected people climate change and conflict coronavirus: covid-19 pandemic operational research virtual reality, access to education, accountability to affected people, climate change and conflict, coronavirus: covid-19 pandemic, operational research, virtual reality, key operations afghanistan ethiopia sahel, afghanistan, ethiopia, sahel,   syria ukraine yemen, syria, ukraine, yemen, legal basis geneva conventions and commentaries treaties and customary law, geneva conventions and commentaries, treaties and customary law, featured publications how does law protect in war? international review of the red cross humanitarian law & policy blog, how does law protect in war?, international review of the red cross, humanitarian law & policy blog, services and resources legal advisory services learning and teaching ihl law and policy platform law and policy events, legal advisory services, learning and teaching ihl, law and policy platform, law and policy events, legal topics current debates on ihl protected persons weapons conduct of hostilities use of emblems violations of ihl domestic law and ihl bodies of law related to ihl strengthening ihl project, current debates on ihl, protected persons, weapons, conduct of hostilities, use of emblems, violations of ihl, domestic law and ihl, bodies of law related to ihl, strengthening ihl project, donate now humanitarian crisis in ukraine give monthly give a gift of hope donate to israel and the occupied territory donate to syria: 10 years of crisis faq learn where your money goes donate by bank transfer, humanitarian crisis in ukraine, give monthly, give a gift of hope, donate to israel and the occupied territory, donate to syria: 10 years of crisis, faq, learn where your money goes, donate by bank transfer, other ways to give leave a legacy fundraising events become a friend of the icrc make a major gift planned giving, leave a legacy, fundraising events, become a friend of the icrc, make a major gift, planned giving, partner with us foundations and trusts corporates development actors, foundations and trusts, corporates, development actors, who funds the icrc? the icrc is funded by voluntary contributions. we receive contributions from the states party to the geneva conventions (governments), national red cross and red crescent societies, supranational organizations (such as the european commission) and public and private sources. governments are our main donors: on average during the past five years, they contributed about 82% of the budget. but contributions remain voluntary and there is no guarantee that such contributions will last into the long-term., what is the budget of the icrc? in 2020, the icrc is appealing for just over 2.2 billion chf. during the year, adjustments to this appeal are made in the form of budget extensions in response to unforeseen needs requiring increased humanitarian action. the budget is growing every year, and 2020 sees an 2.7% increase in the operational budget so that we can continue to bring aid to people in the worlds most challenging conflict hotspots. and yet, pressure on our resources also continues to grow, and we need more funds to help the increasing number of men, women and children around the world who find themselves caught in the crossfire of conflict., how does the icrc calculate how much money it needs? the icrc budget is calculated based on three factors: the humanitarian needs of the communities affected, our ability to deliver aid and protection to those communities, and a realistic assessment of what can actually be implemented. taken together these three factors have tended to produce highly accurate operational plans and budgets: during the last ten years, the icrc has averaged around a 90% implementation rate of its projected budget. our operational budget has been on the increase during the past few years. this year (2020), we have a budget that is almost 3% bigger than last years., are you seeking to diversify your funding? the icrc seeks to secure funding from a broad range of sources in order to have a strong financial foundation and preserve its operational independence. in addition to sustaining support from its traditional donor base, it is working to strengthen its engagement with new and emerging donor states, development actors and key areas of the private sector, in line with its resource mobilization strategy for 2020–2030., how do you reassure your donors that their contributions are well spent? icrc expenditure is audited by an internationally-recognised firm employing stringent and recognised ifrs (international financial reporting standards) accounting standards. we have set up a system of internal and external audits whereby all key financial figures and procedures are checked. the external auditors assessment is published every year and shared with donors. funding and expenditure details are made public in the icrcs annual report, with key indicators showing what we have achieved in the field. moreover, the icrc has always been open to donors who wish to carry out their specific audits, whether in the field or at headquarters. this is part of our policy of being open with donors., how do national red cross and red crescent organizations contribute to your operations? national societies contribute to icrc operations in several ways: for instance, by supporting health activities, providing staff or contributing to specific activities in a country. national societies together support about 3% of the icrcs operations., how does the icrc fund its emergency operations? in an emergency, timing is everything. the capacity to mobilize and deliver resources in the very early hours of a conflict can make all the difference for those in need. it is therefore vital that the icrc have the ability to take operational – and financial – decisions during the first phase of the response. in order to do that, we must be able to pre-fund operations, by which we mean committing resources before any funding is explicitly available. we are able to do this by using special funds that are not earmarked, which means they do not have to be used for a specific region, country or programme, thus giving us maximum flexibility in how we use them. we also use other funds that we have built up over 30 years, known in financial terms as reserves, or equity. when urgent needs arise we will commit these reserves – which would cover a few months of icrc operations - until donor funds for that emergency become available. it is this flexibility and this rapid response that enable the icrc to make a real difference on the ground. moreover, the reserves are important not only for pre-funding operations but also for covering deficits that we may face at the end of the year., is your independence compromised by the fact that the bulk of the icrcs funding comes from a small group of major donors? the icrc only accepts funds from those who respect the icrcs independence and impartiality of action. this means that contributions will be used to respond to humanitarian needs on the ground – as they are assessed by the icrc. in other words, we will not accept donations that are very tightly earmarked and that would breach the principles of independence and impartiality. the icrc welcomes financial support from any new donors. that said, the icrcs relations with its donors are not limited to financial matters. we also engage states on issues such as the protection of people affected by armed conflict and other situations of violence and on the implementation of international humanitarian law., who we are, what we do, where we work, war & law, support us, who we are, what we do, where we work, war & law, support us, home, whats new, contact, media contacts, working for the icrc, other languages, doing business with the icrc, reporting misconduct, access to information and accountability, extranet for donors, home, whats new, contact, media contacts, working for the icrc, other languages, doing business with the icrc, reporting misconduct, access to information and accountability, extranet for donors, washington, israel and the occupied territories, new delhi, inspired: innovation at the icrc, republic of korea, humanitarian law and policy, lhumanitaire dans tous ses états, religion and humanitarian principles, japan, bangkok, jakarta, somalia, cross-files, alinsani, © international committee of the red cross, accessibility, copyright, privacy policy, tax deductions, uid: che-105.924.024]