[warnermedia.&& our affiliates including warner bros..&& and third-parties may collect information about applications you use.&& websites you visit.&& and other information from across websites.&& services.&& apps.&& and your devices and browsers over time.&& in order to help serve advertising that may be more relevant to your interests on and off warnermedia digital services (“targeted advertising”). expand each section below by clicking the arrow to see how you can make choices with respect to targeted advertising..&& we may use third-party technologies to engage in targeted advertising. you can opt-out of this type of advertising by third-parties that participate in self-regulatory programs on your desktop or mobile browser by visiting:.&& important things to note about cookie-based web browser opt-outs (such as those utilized by the daa.&& edaa.&& apda and daac):.&& in addition to the other choices on this page.&& we also offer an opt-out from our own targeted advertising activities if your personal information is collected over time and associated with an ad profile in our internal systems..&& please note that if you opt-out below:.&& you have asked warnermedia to opt you out of our use and transfer of data that we have associated with you for targeted advertising..&& warnermedia will continue to collect and use data for other purposes.&& including research.&& analytics.&& and internal operations. you may continue to receive advertising on warnermedia websites and apps based on your activities across our properties..&& for more information on third-party targeted advertising see our privacy policy..&& tm & © 2022 all rights reserved..&& ][targeted advertising choices, choices for third-party targeted advertising technologies on websites, choices for targeted advertising on mobile apps and devices, additional choices for warnermedia targeted advertising profiles]opt out | warnermedia privacy center[][your privacy rights, frequently asked questions, privacy policy, terms of use, if in the eea, the your online choices website hosted by the european interactive digital advertising alliance (edaa);, if in argentina, the alianza de publicidad digital de argentina (apda);, if in canada, the digital advertising alliance of canada (daac) website;, if in the united states, the digital advertising alliance of the us (daa) website., blocked cookies: the opt-out cookie may not work if your browser is configured to block third-party cookies., deleting or protecting opt-outs: if you delete your cookies, you will need to opt-out again. there may be browser plugins to help you preserve your opt-out cookies., only this browser: the opt-out only applies to the browser in which you set it. for example, if you set the opt-out while using firefox, but then use chrome, the opt-out will not be active in chrome. to opt-out in chrome, you will need to repeat the opt-out process. this is because the cookies cannot be read between different browsers or browser profiles., the opt-out does not block or delete cookies: it also does not prevent the use of cookies or other technologies for purposes other than targeted advertising. if you opt-out, data may still be collected about your web browsing activities (including for research, analytics, and internal operations) and you will still see advertising. ads may be selected, for example, based on the content of the web page in which they are shown. if you wish to block or delete cookies altogether, you can use web browser settings to do so., app choices. to learn more about targeted advertising on mobile apps and to opt-out of this type of advertising by third-parties that participate in the daa’s appchoices tool, please visit the ad choices link to download the version of appchoices for your device. for certain of our digital services, you can manage your preferences through our consent management platform., device options. you may have more options depending on your mobile or connected device and operating system. most device operating systems (e.g., ios for apple devices and android for google and samsung devices) provide their own instructions on how to limit or prevent use of information to deliver personalized or targeted advertising. you may review the support materials and/or the privacy settings for your device’s operating system to learn more about these features and how to exercise your choices., to opt-out from a web browser, click the “opt-out” button below, and we will use information that we collect from your browser to apply an additional opt-out to data in our internal databases that we can associate to you for targeted advertising., to opt-out on a mobile or other connected device (e.g., gaming console or an app on a smart tv): use device settings as described above in “choices for targeted advertising on mobile apps and devices.” we will honor opt-outs that we receive by limiting certain advertising activities on that device in accordance with device settings., it won’t apply to other purposes. we will continue to collect data for other purposes, including research, analytics, internal operations, and advertising that is not targeted based on an ad profile within our internal systems., you will still receive advertising from warnermedia. you may continue to receive advertising on our digital services, such as ads that are tailored based on general location, content displayed on our digital services, or your activities on our digital services., it is not a replacement for the opt-outs described above. your choice will apply only to warnermedia targeted advertising activities for data we can associate to you as described here. because we rely on vendors and partners to facilitate targeted advertising, the more comprehensive opt-outs are the “choices for third-party targeted advertising technologies on websites” and “choices for targeted advertising on mobile apps and devices” described above., our privacy approach, privacy policy, terms of use, cookie settings]