[as climbing season in nepal starts.&& the trek to annapurna base camp is a less trafficked way to get close to some of the world’s tallest peaks..&& compared with the more well-known trek to everest’s base camp.&& the hike to annapurna’s staging area offers lower elevations and fewer fellow trekkers. and unlike the popular annapurna circuit.&& it allows hikers to head deep into the annapurna range.&& rather than going around its perimeter..&& with some of the world’s tallest summits.&& nepal is a top trekking destination. a devastating 2015 earthquake and the pandemic have kept travelers away for the past few years.&& but now adventurers are coming back. “it feels intimate because the mountains feel really close.&&” says photographer emily polar about the annapurna base camp trek.&& which provides epic views of legendary peaks dhaulagiri and machapuchare..&& the annapurna base camp hike is a multiday.&& customizable loop best undertaken in spring or autumn.&& to avoid the monsoon rains. hikers can fly into kathmandu and make their way to pokhara to start the trek either solo or with a guide. local teahouses serve as the backbone of the trail experience and provide rustic accommodations.&& cultural connections.&& and food. all-you-can-eat dal bhat.&& nepal’s traditional savory lentil-and-rice dish.&& is especially popular with hungry trekkers..&& the route traverses a range of ecological zones.&& all located within nepal’s first designated conservation area and its largest protected region. it meanders through lush forest (you might glimpse a nepal gray langur monkey here).&& past waterfalls and terraced fields.&& before emerging into a landscape of steep rock faces and snowcapped peaks. ”you’re hiking into a cirque.&& an amphitheater of mountains.&& that really frames the whole base camp.&&” says polar..&& 26.&&545: height of annapurna i.&& in feet.&& 13.&&550: altitude at base camp.&& in feet.&& 1977: year the annapurna region opened to foreign trekkers.&& copyright © 1996-2015 national geographic societycopyright © 2015-2022 national geographic partners.&& llc. all rights reserved][this himalayan hike skims the clouds—without everest crowds, return to tourism, the route, the landscape, by the numbers, read this next, tooth from mysterious human relative found in laos, their house has stood 130 years. a new fire era may change that., tree-planting projects abound. which should you support?, a revolutionary team of climbers makes history on everest, go further, animals, environment, history & culture, science, travel, subscriber exclusive content, why are people so dang obsessed with mars?, how viruses shape our world, the era of greyhound racing in the u.s. is coming to an end, see how people have imagined life on mars through history, see how nasa’s new mars rover will explore the red planet, why are people so dang obsessed with mars?, how viruses shape our world, the era of greyhound racing in the u.s. is coming to an end, see how people have imagined life on mars through history, see how nasa’s new mars rover will explore the red planet, why are people so dang obsessed with mars?, how viruses shape our world, the era of greyhound racing in the u.s. is coming to an end, see how people have imagined life on mars through history, see how nasa’s new mars rover will explore the red planet]this himalayan hike skims the clouds—without everest crowds[][, , renew, subscribe, menu, magazine, science, environment, environment, planet possible, adventure, nightlife: animals after dark, video story paid content nightlife: animals after dark, paid content, how predators get past the trickiest of defenses animals how predators get past the trickiest of defenses, animals, these bats imitate hornets to avoid being eaten by owls animals these bats imitate hornets to avoid being eaten by owls, animals, vaquita porpoises may still recover if illegal fishing ends animals vaquita porpoises may still recover if illegal fishing ends, animals, los angeles mountain lions are becoming inbred animals los angeles mountain lions are becoming inbred, animals, tiny bat makes record-shattering flight with 1500-mile migration animals weird & wild tiny bat makes record-shattering flight with 1500-mile migration, animals, weird & wild, huge fish captured in mekong river suggests some megafish thrive environment planet possible huge fish captured in mekong river suggests some megafish thrive, environment, planet possible, their house has stood 130 years. a new fire era may change that. environment their house has stood 130 years. a new fire era may change that., environment, tree-planting projects abound. which should you support? environment planet possible tree-planting projects abound. which should you support?, environment, planet possible, mining is a polluting business. can new tech make it cleaner? environment planet possible mining is a polluting business. can new tech make it cleaner?, environment, planet possible, philippines reefs are some of the most vibrant—but in peril magazine philippines reefs are some of the most vibrant—but in peril, magazine, the biggest living thing on earth is being nibbled to death environment the biggest living thing on earth is being nibbled to death, environment, this woman navigates the pacific without technology history & culture this woman navigates the pacific without technology, history & culture, how u.s. abortion laws went from nonexistent to acrimonious history & culture how u.s. abortion laws went from nonexistent to acrimonious, history & culture, a viking ship burial held riches—and a surprising mystery history magazine a viking ship burial held riches—and a surprising mystery, history magazine, fleeing violence in venezuela, women migrants face callous indifference history & culture stories of migration fleeing violence in venezuela, women migrants face callous indifference, history & culture, stories of migration, buddhist treasures lay hidden inside these caves for centuries history magazine buddhist treasures lay hidden inside these caves for centuries, history magazine, secret tunnel reveals procession of ancient gods history & culture secret tunnel reveals procession of ancient gods, history & culture, tooth from mysterious human relative found in laos science tooth from mysterious human relative found in laos, science, descending into one of the deepest caves on earth magazine through the lens descending into one of the deepest caves on earth, magazine, through the lens, the secret behind lily pad strength and other science news magazine breakthroughs the secret behind lily pad strength and other science news, magazine, breakthroughs, the first picture of the black hole at the center of our galaxy science the first picture of the black hole at the center of our galaxy, science, lost your smell to covid-19? here’s how to retrain your brain. science coronavirus coverage lost your smell to covid-19? here’s how to retrain your brain., science, coronavirus coverage, a super-long blood moon is coming. heres how to see it. science a super-long blood moon is coming. heres how to see it., science, 10 places where you can ditch your car this summer travel 10 places where you can ditch your car this summer, travel, six parks telling surprising stories of the american south travel six parks telling surprising stories of the american south, travel, discover the natural wonders along georgia’s coast travel discover the natural wonders along georgia’s coast, travel, here’s why hut-hiking is the best way to see new zealand travel here’s why hut-hiking is the best way to see new zealand, travel, these are the 10 most popular national parks travel these are the 10 most popular national parks, travel, is saudi arabia ready for travelers? travel world heritage is saudi arabia ready for travelers?, travel, world heritage, magazine, magazine, animals, magazine, magazine, magazine, magazine, animals, magazine, magazine, magazine, magazine, animals, magazine, magazine, terms of use, privacy policy, your california privacy rights, childrens online privacy policy, interest-based ads, about nielsen measurement, do not sell my info, nat geo home, attend a live event, book a trip, buy maps, inspire your kids, shop nat geo, visit the d.c. museum, watch tv, learn about our impact, support our mission, nat geo partners, masthead, press room, advertise with us, subscribe, customer service, renew subscription, manage your subscription, work at nat geo, sign up for our newsletters, contribute to protect the planet, pitch a story]