[][our positions, amazon news, sign up for the latest news, facts, analysis, and original stories about amazon delivered to you.]amazons policy positions[][who we are open item who we are leadership principles our positions awards and recognition facts about amazon, who we are leadership principles our positions awards and recognition facts about amazon, leadership principles our positions awards and recognition facts about amazon, leadership principles, our positions, awards and recognition, facts about amazon, what we do open item what we do amazon store delivery and logistics devices and services amazon web services entertainment, what we do amazon store delivery and logistics devices and services amazon web services entertainment, amazon store delivery and logistics devices and services amazon web services entertainment, amazon store, delivery and logistics, devices and services, amazon web services, entertainment, our workplace open item our workplace our employees employee benefits diversity, equity, and inclusion upskilling and training safety at amazon facilities corporate offices amazon fulfillment center tours, our workplace our employees employee benefits diversity, equity, and inclusion upskilling and training safety at amazon facilities corporate offices amazon fulfillment center tours, our employees employee benefits diversity, equity, and inclusion upskilling and training, our employees, employee benefits, diversity, equity, and inclusion, upskilling and training, safety at amazon facilities corporate offices amazon fulfillment center tours, safety at amazon, facilities, corporate offices, amazon fulfillment center tours, our impact open item our impact economic impact economic growth job creation community investments empowerment small businesses public skills training programs authors aws customers delivery partners community impact stem education housing equity help for hunger disaster relief and response amazonsmile, our impact economic impact economic growth job creation community investments empowerment small businesses public skills training programs authors aws customers delivery partners community impact stem education housing equity help for hunger disaster relief and response amazonsmile, economic impact economic growth job creation community investments, economic growth, job creation, community investments, empowerment small businesses public skills training programs authors aws customers delivery partners, small businesses, public skills training programs, authors, aws customers, delivery partners, community impact stem education housing equity help for hunger disaster relief and response amazonsmile, stem education, housing equity, help for hunger, disaster relief and response, amazonsmile, our planet open item our planet the climate pledge sustainable operations improving packaging our supply chain sustainability website, our planet the climate pledge sustainable operations improving packaging our supply chain sustainability website, the climate pledge sustainable operations improving packaging our supply chain sustainability website, the climate pledge, sustainable operations, improving packaging, our supply chain, sustainability website, follow us open item follow us twitter @amazonnews @amazon @amazon_policy linkedin amazon instagram amazon amazon vest life facebook amazon youtube amazon news blogs and news sites amazon science aws news blog amazon ads, follow us twitter @amazonnews @amazon @amazon_policy linkedin amazon instagram amazon amazon vest life facebook amazon youtube amazon news blogs and news sites amazon science aws news blog amazon ads, twitter @amazonnews @amazon @amazon_policy, @amazonnews, @amazon, @amazon_policy, linkedin amazon, amazon, instagram amazon amazon vest life, amazon, amazon vest life, facebook amazon, amazon, youtube amazon news, amazon news, blogs and news sites amazon science aws news blog amazon ads, amazon science, aws news blog, amazon ads, who we are open item who we are leadership principles our positions awards and recognition facts about amazon, who we are leadership principles our positions awards and recognition facts about amazon, leadership principles our positions awards and recognition facts about amazon, leadership principles, our positions, awards and recognition, facts about amazon, what we do open item what we do amazon store delivery and logistics devices and services amazon web services entertainment, what we do amazon store delivery and logistics devices and services amazon web services entertainment, amazon store delivery and logistics devices and services amazon web services entertainment, amazon store, delivery and logistics, devices and services, amazon web services, entertainment, our workplace open item our workplace our employees employee benefits diversity, equity, and inclusion upskilling and training safety at amazon facilities corporate offices amazon fulfillment center tours, our workplace our employees employee benefits diversity, equity, and inclusion upskilling and training safety at amazon facilities corporate offices amazon fulfillment center tours, our employees employee benefits diversity, equity, and inclusion upskilling and training, our employees, employee benefits, diversity, equity, and inclusion, upskilling and training, safety at amazon facilities corporate offices amazon fulfillment center tours, safety at amazon, facilities, corporate offices, amazon fulfillment center tours, our impact open item our impact economic impact economic growth job creation community investments empowerment small businesses public skills training programs authors aws customers delivery partners community impact stem education housing equity help for hunger disaster relief and response amazonsmile, our impact economic impact economic growth job creation community investments empowerment small businesses public skills training programs authors aws customers delivery partners community impact stem education housing equity help for hunger disaster relief and response amazonsmile, economic impact economic growth job creation community investments, economic growth, job creation, community investments, empowerment small businesses public skills training programs authors aws customers delivery partners, small businesses, public skills training programs, authors, aws customers, delivery partners, community impact stem education housing equity help for hunger disaster relief and response amazonsmile, stem education, housing equity, help for hunger, disaster relief and response, amazonsmile, our planet open item our planet the climate pledge sustainable operations improving packaging our supply chain sustainability website, our planet the climate pledge sustainable operations improving packaging our supply chain sustainability website, the climate pledge sustainable operations improving packaging our supply chain sustainability website, the climate pledge, sustainable operations, improving packaging, our supply chain, sustainability website, follow us open item follow us twitter @amazonnews @amazon @amazon_policy linkedin amazon instagram amazon amazon vest life facebook amazon youtube amazon news blogs and news sites amazon science aws news blog amazon ads, follow us twitter @amazonnews @amazon @amazon_policy linkedin amazon instagram amazon amazon vest life facebook amazon youtube amazon news blogs and news sites amazon science aws news blog amazon ads, twitter @amazonnews @amazon @amazon_policy, @amazonnews, @amazon, @amazon_policy, linkedin amazon, amazon, instagram amazon amazon vest life, amazon, amazon vest life, facebook amazon, amazon, youtube amazon news, amazon news, blogs and news sites amazon science aws news blog amazon ads, amazon science, aws news blog, amazon ads, the federal minimum wage in the u.s. is too low and should be raised. the federal minimum wage is $7.25 and has not increased since 2009. raising the minimum wage would have a profound impact on the lives of tens of millions of individuals and families across the nation and help address growing income inequality. we pay a starting wage of at least $15 an hour to all full-time, part-time, temporary, and seasonal employees across the u.s. this is on top of industry-leading, comprehensive benefits for employees. and our benefits are egalitarian, regardless of level or seniority. we are using our position as one of the nation’s largest employers to encourage other companies to raise their wages and to lobby members of congress and state legislatures to raise the minimum wage., human-induced climate change is real, serious, and action is needed from the public and private sectors. the overwhelming majority of climate scientists agree that human activities are contributing to climate-warming trends over the past century, and most leading scientific organizations worldwide have issued public statements endorsing this position. we agree and have created the climate pledge—a commitment to reach the paris agreement 10 years early. we are innovating and investing to be net-zero carbon by 2040 and run on 100% renewable energy by 2025. we are purchasing 100,000 fully electric delivery vehicles, the largest order ever for electric delivery vehicles, and investing $100 million in nature-based climate solutions and reforestation projects around the world to begin removing carbon from the atmosphere now. our sustainability website provides comprehensive reporting on our carbon footprint and progress on our commitments., the energy industry should have access to the same technologies as other industries. we will continue to provide cloud services to companies in the energy industry to make their legacy businesses less carbon intensive and help them accelerate development of renewable energy businesses. we support sustainability programs for our own business, and work with partners to reduce their demand for carbon fuel sources., diversity, equity, and inclusion are good for business—and more fundamentally—simply right. customers represent a wide array of genders, races, ethnicities, abilities, ages, religions, sexual orientations, military status, backgrounds, and political views. it’s critical that amazon employees are also diverse and that we foster a culture where inclusion is the norm. amazon prioritizes equal pay, and since we’ve been measuring and publishing the ratio over the past several years, women have earned between 99.5 and 101.5 cents for every dollar that men have earned in the same jobs. we also believe its critical that we increase opportunity for underrepresented groups to enter the technology workforce. we created amazon future engineer, a childhood-to-career computer science education program designed to inspire and educate millions of students globally from underserved communities to pursue careers in computer science. its not only that diversity, equity, and inclusion are good for business—its more fundamental than that. its simply right., the inequitable treatment of black people is unacceptable. we stand in solidarity with our black employees, customers, and partners, and are committed to helping build a country and a world where everyone can live with dignity and free from fear. we support the george floyd justice in policing act. we also support policies that protect and expand voting rights, as well as initiatives that provide better health and educational outcomes for black people., the rights of lgbtq+ people must be protected. we were early and strong supporters of marriage equality and will continue to advocate for protections and equal rights for transgender people. we stand together with the lgbtq community and are working at the u.s. federal and state level on legislation, including supporting passage of the equality act. amazon provides gender transition benefits based on the standards of care published by the world professional association for transgender health (wpath). we received a perfect score on the human rights campaign foundations corporate equality index for the last five years., we strongly support the rights of immigrants and immigration reform. amazon believes the u.s. should welcome the best and the brightest talent from around the world. its imperative for our countrys competitiveness. amazon has hundreds of thousands of employees in the u.s. from all backgrounds who are dedicated to inventing on behalf of and serving our customers. we support and lobby for immigration reform, including a legal pathway to citizenship for dreamers and reforms to the green card and high-skilled visa programs., all people should have access to housing they can afford. low-income and minority families are disproportionately affected by an affordable housing shortage in the u.s. while only governments at the local, state, and federal level have the capacity to implement more effective housing policies, we believe the private and public sectors can work together to address this challenge. we will use our position as a large employer to support innovative housing affordability initiatives. and, in locations where we have a sizeable presence, we will invest directly in efforts where we believe our financial support will make a difference., governments at all levels—federal, state, and local—should have access to the best technology. harnessing the capabilities of advanced technology such as the cloud and machine learning are important to the ongoing safety and security of the country, its citizens, our communities, and the world. we will continue to provide u.s. government and law enforcement agencies access to the most advanced technology., governments should work quickly to put in place effective regulatory frameworks and guardrails for facial recognition technology. facial recognition technology is already solving some complex problems. for example, amazon rekognition has helped locate hundreds of missing children and identify thousands of child sex trafficking victims. like most technology, facial recognition is two-sided, meaning it can also be misused. we provide guidance to all rekognition customers, including law enforcement customers, on the technologys proper use, and we have a clear acceptable use policy. however, we think that governments and lawmakers should act to regulate the use of this technology to ensure its used appropriately, and we have proposed guidelines for effective regulatory frameworks and guardrails that protect individual civil rights and ensures that governments are transparent in their application of the technology. on june 10, 2020, we announced a one-year moratorium on police use of amazons facial recognition technology in the hope that this would give lawmakers around the world, including the u.s. congress, time to implement appropriate rules, and we stand ready to help if requested., counterfeiters should receive stronger penalties under federal law. counterfeit is one of the few crimes specifically prohibited by the u.s. constitution, yet bad actors are undeterred and continue to push their products through online and physical stores, harming both consumers and the retail companies who serve them. in 2020, amazon invested over $800 million and had more than 10,000 employees fighting fraud and abuse, including counterfeit. amazons efforts have blocked over 6 million suspected bad actor accounts before they were able to make a single product available for sale and blocked over 10 billion suspected listings in 2020. amazon supports and lobbies for u.s. federal policies that make intellectual property violations crimes with meaningful penalties, and for law enforcement to have resources to appropriately prosecute these crimes. we also support a requirement that every package imported into the u.s. clearly identify the person or entity responsible for shipping the product., consumer data privacy should be protected under federal law. we have built privacy into our services from the ground up, and we never sell individual customer data. many core features of the customer experience at amazon depend on us using data responsibly and transparently. our customer-centric approach has led us to follow privacy-by-design principles since our founding. we disclose in our privacy notice the types of data we collect and the limited circumstances in which we share customer data with third parties. we support u.s. federal privacy legislation that requires transparency, access to ones own personal information, ability to delete personal information, and that prohibits the sale of personal data without consent., corporate tax codes in any country should incentivize investment in the economy and job creation. in addition, tax codes, particularly between countries, should be coordinated to have neither loopholes that permit artificially lower tax rates, nor overlaps that cause higher tax rates or redundant taxation, because these distort company behavior in ways that dont benefit consumers or the economy. we support the organisation for economic co-operation and development and its work with global governments to review the international tax system and secure consensus on these points. if youd like a reference copy of amazons our positions document, download it here (144kb, pdf)., federal minimum wage, climate change, energy and technology, diversity, equity, and inclusion, equity for black people, lgbtq+ rights, immigration reform, housing equity, government and technology, facial recognition technology, counterfeit, consumer privacy, corporate tax codes, amazon news, press center, amazon.com, investor resources, careers, facts about amazon, , , , , ]