[sign up for our new covid-19 email newsletter to get all of the latest information delivered to your inbox..&& if you are showing signs of possible covid-19 symptoms.&& take one of these steps:.&& if you meet testing criteria.&& you will be given directions about how to schedule a test..&& do not go to the emergency department to get a covid-19 test. emergency departments are for patients with life-threatening health care needs..&& if youd like to make an appointment.&& visit our request an appointment page and select the location at which youd like to be seen. covid-19 testing may be required for patients who are scheduled for a consultation.&& treatment.&& procedure or surgery. you may be asked screening questions when making an appointment or be asked to bring a printed copy of your pcr test result if youve tested positive for covid-19 within 90 days of your appointment..&& in addition to in-person appointments and consultations.&& we offer opportunities to receive care at home or other locations. learn more about our convenient care options..&& contact your health care professional if you have concerns about a delay or have questions about your care during this time. if you have an urgent need.&& do not delay care. our emergency departments are open.&& and staff are prepared to care for you..&& we require staff.&& patients and visitors to wear an acceptable mask on mayo clinic campuses to slow the spread of covid-19..&& depending on local covid-19 trends.&& some mayo clinic health system locations may have temporary service changes for the protection of patients and staff. these changes may include restricting visitors.&& delaying elective visits.&& adjusting hours or shifting to alternative appointment types.&& such as video or phone visits. exceptions to policy will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis..&& we understand that these policies can be difficult for patients and their loved ones. we encourage family members to consider other ways to connect with their loved ones via phone.&& text.&& social media or video chats..&& hospitalized patients should have access to essential personal items for vital activities and to allow for proper rehab and health support during their clinical stay. essential items may be dropped off between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m..&& essential personal items include:.&& food items (cultural exceptions may apply) and comfort pets will not be allowed at this time..&& we are not able to accept items that families would like to drop off for delivery to loved ones’ inpatient rooms. this includes items such as clothing.&& food.&& flowers.&& gifts or electronics. these measures are in place to ensure the safety of patients and staff while minimizing risk of further infection exposure. virtual options will be available for families and friends to connect with patients while in the hospital..&& visitor restrictions are subject to change depending on the presence of covid-19 in each community..&& curbside pickup][minnesota, wisconsin, iowa, recent blogs, covid-19 email newsletter, what to do if you suspect you have covid-19, appointment availability, visitor policy, northwest wisconsin (barron, bloomer, eau claire, menomonie, osseo), southeast minnesota (albert lea, austin, cannon falls, faribault, lake city, owatonna, red wing), southwest minnesota (fairmont, mankato, new prague, st. james and waseca), mayo clinic stores, southwest wisconsin (la crosse, sparta), stay connected]covid-19 - mayo clinic health system[do not go to the emergency department to get a covid-19 test., we require staff, patients and visitors to wear an acceptable mask on mayo clinic campuses to slow the spread of covid-19., outpatient clinics, hospitals and emergency departments, outpatient clinic visits:, hospital and emergency department visits:][patient online services, pay bill online, request an appointment, services, providers, locations minnesota adams albert lea austin belle plaine blooming prairie butterfield caledonia cannon falls fairmont faribault janesville kenyon lake city le sueur mankato montgomery new prague new richland northfield owatonna plainview red wing sherburn st. james st. peter waseca waterville wells zumbrota wisconsin arcadia barron bloomer chetek chippewa falls eau claire ellsworth glenwood city holmen la crosse menomonie mondovi onalaska osseo prairie du chien rice lake sparta tomah iowa decorah lake mills view map, adams, albert lea, austin, belle plaine, blooming prairie, butterfield, caledonia, cannon falls, fairmont, faribault, janesville, kenyon, lake city, le sueur, mankato, montgomery, new prague, new richland, northfield, owatonna, plainview, red wing, sherburn, st. james, st. peter, waseca, waterville, wells, zumbrota, arcadia, barron, bloomer, chetek, chippewa falls, eau claire, ellsworth, glenwood city, holmen, la crosse, menomonie, mondovi, onalaska, osseo, prairie du chien, rice lake, sparta, tomah, decorah, lake mills, classes/events, blog, wellness, referrals, covid-19, request an appointment, patient online services, pay bills online, refer a patient, mayo clinic appointment and visitor guidance, mayo clinic news network, cdc (english) │ other languages, american sign language videos, featured topic what to know about fda limits on use of j&j covid-19 vaccine may 10, 2022, featured topic second covid-19 booster for those 50 and older, immunocompromised april 08, 2022, featured topic dealing with brain fog from long covid-19 march 29, 2022, use the check symptoms tool through patient online services or the mayo clinic app for an immediate recommendation based on your symptoms., contact your local health care professional., northwest wisconsin (barron, bloomer, eau claire, menomonie, osseo) as of march 24: patients will be permitted to have two visitors. this includes mayo clinic health system hospitals and emergency departments in barron, bloomer, eau claire, menomonie and osseo, as well as all clinics in the region. each patient may designate up to five visitors on his or her visitor list. those five visitors can rotate, up to two at one time. all visitors allowed visitation must wear an acceptable face mask and follow safety guidelines. masks are available at entrances. no visitor under age of 5 will be permitted to enter the inpatient setting. visiting hours for the hospital will be 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily. outpatient visitor hours are for the duration of the appointment(s). all visitors will be screened for symptoms of acute respiratory illness or communicable infection. visitors with a positive covid-19 test and under home isolations per public health orders, visitors with a pending covid-19 test, and visitors who screen positive for symptoms will not be permitted visitation. patients with a covid-19 positive test or a pending covid-19 test will not be allowed a visitor unless they meet the criteria for a compassionate or practical visitor exception. the decision to allow a covid-19 positive patient or visitor rests with the attending physician and charge nurse. leadership reserves the right at any time and without prior notice to allow certain practices or areas to invoke stricter visitor access guidelines to ensure patient and staff safety (e.g., oncology and inpatient psychiatry). exceptions and requests for accommodations will be considered and approved, on a case-by-case basis, by the attending provider and/or charge rn with escalation to the administrator or nurse administrator on call. any exceptions granted may be rescinded if they can no longer be reasonably allowed due to patient and staff safety. visitors may be removed from the facility for failure to comply with the visitor procedure. a hospital visitor needing to come in outside of the approved visitor hours will be directed to enter via the emergency department. vendors will only be allowed for urgent/critical patient need. these approved vendors will be required to follow all visitor guidelines, including the policies for vendor access. any other vendor requesting access will be denied. compassionate exceptions (hospital/emergency department/surgical): patients who are at the end-of-life, as defined by the medical team. sudden decline in patient medical stability of life-altering impact. hospital staff will provide appropriate ppe and other supports as required for safety in such situations. the patient or family may request that the ritual, ceremony or rite be performed by the faith leader of their choice (e.g., a leader from their local faith community). patients requesting a religious ritual, ceremony or rite, which cannot be performed virtually (or by in-house spiritual care resources) and that can be provided without disruption to care. hospital staff will provide appropriate ppe and other supports as required for safety in such situations. the patient or family may request that the ritual, ceremony or rite be performed by the faith leader of their choice (e.g., a leader from their local faith community). faith community leader will be permitted to enter as an additional visitor with approval from the patient/family care team. contact spiritual care at 715-838-3397 to coordinate this type of visit. when the criteria for a compassionate exception is met: a reasonable number of visitors, not to exceed five, will be allowed to visit the patient. no more than two visitors may be in the patients room at any time. the care team will determine whether and how the visitor(s) can safely be accommodated. visiting hours will be determined by the care team. whenever possible, the visitor(s) will be coached in masking and ppe expectations prior to being brought to see the patient. practical exceptions (hospital/emergency department/surgical). one visitor will be permitted within the hospital outside of established visiting hours for: approved visitor for the birth of a child is allowed to remain in the hospital for the duration of the admission for birth of a child. patients requiring assistance of a caregiver. pediatric patients (18 years and under). patients with special needs. patients who have an activated power of attorney or court-appointed guardian. practical exceptions (outpatient). in some cases, more than two visitors may be allowed: all pediatric patients being seen in any outpatient/ambulatory department are allowed two visitors, with no age restriction. patients can request an exception to the visitor policy by asking the department care team (provider and support team) and if granted by the care team a letter will be drafted by the support team outlining details of exception. the letter is documented in the electronic health record. all visitors allowed visitation must wear a cloth face covering or face mask per centers for disease control (cdc) guidance. if visitors do not have a face mask, one will be provided by mayo clinic. patients can request an exception to the visitor policy by asking the department care team (provider and support team) and if granted by the care team a letter will be drafted by the support team outlining details of exception. the letter is documented in the electronic health record. all visitors allowed visitation must wear a cloth face covering or face mask per centers for disease control (cdc) guidance. if visitors do not have a face mask, one will be provided by mayo clinic. approved visitors for surgery or a surgical procedure (elective or emergent) are allowed to remain in the hospital at patients bedside an additional three hours after the patient is admitted to the assigned inpatient floor. approved visitors for a hospital admission that occurs outside of the approved visiting hours will be allowed to remain at the patients bedside for a maximum of three hours after completion of the admission process, unless criteria is met for a compassionate exception as determined by the medical team. patient belongings hospitalized patients should have access to essential personal items for vital activities and to allow for proper rehab and health support during their clinical stay. essential items may be dropped off between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. essential personal items include: glasses dentures hearing aids cellphone & charger ipad or laptop personal assistive devices (cane, walker, orthotics) shoes an adequate change of clothing for those requiring therapy prior to transfer or discharge. food items (cultural exceptions may apply) and comfort pets will not be allowed at this time. patient room deliveries discontinued we are not able to accept items that families would like to drop off for delivery to loved ones’ inpatient rooms. this includes items such as clothing, food, flowers, gifts or electronics. these measures are in place to ensure the safety of patients and staff while minimizing risk of further infection exposure. virtual options will be available for families and friends to connect with patients while in the hospital., patients will be permitted to have two visitors. this includes mayo clinic health system hospitals and emergency departments in barron, bloomer, eau claire, menomonie and osseo, as well as all clinics in the region. each patient may designate up to five visitors on his or her visitor list. those five visitors can rotate, up to two at one time., all visitors allowed visitation must wear an acceptable face mask and follow safety guidelines. masks are available at entrances., no visitor under age of 5 will be permitted to enter the inpatient setting., visiting hours for the hospital will be 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily. outpatient visitor hours are for the duration of the appointment(s)., all visitors will be screened for symptoms of acute respiratory illness or communicable infection. visitors with a positive covid-19 test and under home isolations per public health orders, visitors with a pending covid-19 test, and visitors who screen positive for symptoms will not be permitted visitation., patients with a covid-19 positive test or a pending covid-19 test will not be allowed a visitor unless they meet the criteria for a compassionate or practical visitor exception. the decision to allow a covid-19 positive patient or visitor rests with the attending physician and charge nurse., leadership reserves the right at any time and without prior notice to allow certain practices or areas to invoke stricter visitor access guidelines to ensure patient and staff safety (e.g., oncology and inpatient psychiatry)., exceptions and requests for accommodations will be considered and approved, on a case-by-case basis, by the attending provider and/or charge rn with escalation to the administrator or nurse administrator on call. any exceptions granted may be rescinded if they can no longer be reasonably allowed due to patient and staff safety., visitors may be removed from the facility for failure to comply with the visitor procedure., a hospital visitor needing to come in outside of the approved visitor hours will be directed to enter via the emergency department., vendors will only be allowed for urgent/critical patient need. these approved vendors will be required to follow all visitor guidelines, including the policies for vendor access. any other vendor requesting access will be denied., patients who are at the end-of-life, as defined by the medical team., sudden decline in patient medical stability of life-altering impact., hospital staff will provide appropriate ppe and other supports as required for safety in such situations. the patient or family may request that the ritual, ceremony or rite be performed by the faith leader of their choice (e.g., a leader from their local faith community)., patients requesting a religious ritual, ceremony or rite, which cannot be performed virtually (or by in-house spiritual care resources) and that can be provided without disruption to care. hospital staff will provide appropriate ppe and other supports as required for safety in such situations. the patient or family may request that the ritual, ceremony or rite be performed by the faith leader of their choice (e.g., a leader from their local faith community). faith community leader will be permitted to enter as an additional visitor with approval from the patient/family care team. contact spiritual care at 715-838-3397 to coordinate this type of visit., the patient or family may request that the ritual, ceremony or rite be performed by the faith leader of their choice (e.g., a leader from their local faith community)., faith community leader will be permitted to enter as an additional visitor with approval from the patient/family care team. contact spiritual care at 715-838-3397 to coordinate this type of visit., when the criteria for a compassionate exception is met: a reasonable number of visitors, not to exceed five, will be allowed to visit the patient. no more than two visitors may be in the patients room at any time. the care team will determine whether and how the visitor(s) can safely be accommodated. visiting hours will be determined by the care team. whenever possible, the visitor(s) will be coached in masking and ppe expectations prior to being brought to see the patient., a reasonable number of visitors, not to exceed five, will be allowed to visit the patient. no more than two visitors may be in the patients room at any time., the care team will determine whether and how the visitor(s) can safely be accommodated., visiting hours will be determined by the care team., whenever possible, the visitor(s) will be coached in masking and ppe expectations prior to being brought to see the patient., approved visitor for the birth of a child is allowed to remain in the hospital for the duration of the admission for birth of a child., patients requiring assistance of a caregiver., pediatric patients (18 years and under)., patients with special needs., patients who have an activated power of attorney or court-appointed guardian., all pediatric patients being seen in any outpatient/ambulatory department are allowed two visitors, with no age restriction., patients can request an exception to the visitor policy by asking the department care team (provider and support team) and if granted by the care team a letter will be drafted by the support team outlining details of exception. the letter is documented in the electronic health record., all visitors allowed visitation must wear a cloth face covering or face mask per centers for disease control (cdc) guidance. if visitors do not have a face mask, one will be provided by mayo clinic., patients can request an exception to the visitor policy by asking the department care team (provider and support team) and if granted by the care team a letter will be drafted by the support team outlining details of exception. the letter is documented in the electronic health record., all visitors allowed visitation must wear a cloth face covering or face mask per centers for disease control (cdc) guidance. if visitors do not have a face mask, one will be provided by mayo clinic., glasses, dentures, hearing aids, cellphone & charger, ipad or laptop, personal assistive devices (cane, walker, orthotics), shoes, an adequate change of clothing for those requiring therapy prior to transfer or discharge., southeast minnesota (albert lea, austin, cannon falls, faribault, lake city, owatonna, red wing) outpatient clinics one accompanying visitor is permitted for adult patients. pediatric patients are permitted two visitors. hospitals and emergency departments two visitors are permitted for inpatients, and they must be the same people for the duration of a patients stay. visitors must be age 5 or older, and visitors under the age of 16 must be accompanied by a parent, guardian or designated adult at all times. inpatient visitors may come and go during the visiting hours of 8 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. no visitors are permitted for inpatients with covid-19 or who are in the rule-out stage. visitor restrictions are subject to change depending on the presence of covid-19 in each community., outpatient clinics one accompanying visitor is permitted for adult patients. pediatric patients are permitted two visitors., hospitals and emergency departments two visitors are permitted for inpatients, and they must be the same people for the duration of a patients stay. visitors must be age 5 or older, and visitors under the age of 16 must be accompanied by a parent, guardian or designated adult at all times. inpatient visitors may come and go during the visiting hours of 8 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. no visitors are permitted for inpatients with covid-19 or who are in the rule-out stage., southwest minnesota (fairmont, mankato, new prague, st. james and waseca) outpatient clinic visits: patients will be allowed to have two masked visitors during outpatient visits. hospital and emergency department visits: patients will be allowed to identify two visitors for the duration of their stay in the emergency department or hospital. the same visitors will be in place for the duration of the patients hospital stay (no substitute visitors). compassionate exceptions for additional visitors may be granted on a case-by-case basis. all visitors will be screened prior to hospital entry. inpatient and outpatient surgical patients will be allowed two visitors no visitors under the age of 5 will be allowed. visitors for patients who have tested positive for covid-19 or are being evaluated for covid-19 may be allowed only in rare and unique circumstances managed on a case-by-case basis by the medical care team and hospital leadership. visitors and patients may request exceptions which will be granted and withdrawn as necessary. if a visitor is permitted for a patient who has tested positive for covid-19, the care team will explain to the visitor the risks of contracting covid-19 and educate the visitor on the appropriate personal protective equipment (ppe) and precautions required. mayo clinic stores curbside pickup fairmont: 507-238-5133 mankato: 507-594-2689, outpatient clinic visits: patients will be allowed to have two masked visitors during outpatient visits., hospital and emergency department visits: patients will be allowed to identify two visitors for the duration of their stay in the emergency department or hospital. the same visitors will be in place for the duration of the patients hospital stay (no substitute visitors). compassionate exceptions for additional visitors may be granted on a case-by-case basis. all visitors will be screened prior to hospital entry., inpatient and outpatient surgical patients will be allowed two visitors, no visitors under the age of 5 will be allowed., visitors for patients who have tested positive for covid-19 or are being evaluated for covid-19 may be allowed only in rare and unique circumstances managed on a case-by-case basis by the medical care team and hospital leadership. visitors and patients may request exceptions which will be granted and withdrawn as necessary. if a visitor is permitted for a patient who has tested positive for covid-19, the care team will explain to the visitor the risks of contracting covid-19 and educate the visitor on the appropriate personal protective equipment (ppe) and precautions required., fairmont: 507-238-5133, mankato: 507-594-2689, southwest wisconsin (la crosse, sparta) hospital patients may have visitors age 16 and older, with two visitors allowed at one time. hospital visiting hours are from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. clinic patients are allowed two designated visitors. visitors for patients who are positive for covid-19 or potentially positive for covid-19 may be permitted only in rare circumstances, as approved by the medical care team and hospital leaders. the stephen and barbara slaggie family cancer and blood disorders center will allow one visitor in the chemotherapy treatment room and two visitors in other areas of the center. patients coming to the emergency department will be allowed two visitors unless the patient or visitor presents with any symptoms possibly related to covid-19. two support persons can remain throughout the hospital stay for obstetrical patients. compassionate exceptions will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, including end-of-life and cancer care. all visitors must wear an acceptable face mask. if visitors do not have a face mask, one will be provided by mayo clinic. in addition, all visitors will be screened for symptoms of acute respiratory illness or communicable infection prior to being allowed entrance., hospital patients may have visitors age 16 and older, with two visitors allowed at one time. hospital visiting hours are from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m., clinic patients are allowed two designated visitors., visitors for patients who are positive for covid-19 or potentially positive for covid-19 may be permitted only in rare circumstances, as approved by the medical care team and hospital leaders., the stephen and barbara slaggie family cancer and blood disorders center will allow one visitor in the chemotherapy treatment room and two visitors in other areas of the center., patients coming to the emergency department will be allowed two visitors unless the patient or visitor presents with any symptoms possibly related to covid-19., two support persons can remain throughout the hospital stay for obstetrical patients., compassionate exceptions will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, including end-of-life and cancer care., all visitors must wear an acceptable face mask. if visitors do not have a face mask, one will be provided by mayo clinic. in addition, all visitors will be screened for symptoms of acute respiratory illness or communicable infection prior to being allowed entrance., , , , , , , contact us, notice of nondiscrimination, notice of privacy practices, terms of use, privacy policy, about us, careers, volunteer, donate, for patients & visitors, financial assistance, community resources, caringbridge, for medical professionals, press room, mayo clinic, home]