[your privacy is important to arcademics. this privacy policy covers how we collect.&& use.&& disclose.&& and store your information. by using arcademics.&& you agree to the terms and conditions of this privacy policy. please contact us if you have any questions concerning our privacy practices..&& we make multiplayer educational games - free math games.&& free language arts games.&& and more for k-8 students. with arcademics plus.&& teachers and parents can view data reports and customize game content. arcademics games can be played on the ipad app and android app..&& © 2022 arcademics][privacy policy, collection and use of personal information, cookies and other technologies, children, disclosure to third parties, useful links, company, follow us, download the apps]privacy policy - arcademics[][grades all grades grade 1 grade 2 grade 3 grade 4 grade 5 grade 6, all grades, grade 1, grade 2, grade 3, grade 4, grade 5, grade 6, subjects all subjects shapes counting addition subtraction multiplication division integers money time decimals fractions ratio & proportion algebra language arts spelling typing geography, all subjects, shapes, counting, addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, integers, money, time, decimals, fractions, ratio & proportion, algebra, language arts, spelling, typing, geography, how it works, case studies, sign up free, login, personal information is data that can be used to uniquely identify or contact a single person., when you sign up for arcademics plus, we may ask for your name, email address, and other additional information depending on your account type. we use this information to provide the best possible service. this information is securely stored on our servers, and it is not shared with any 3rd parties., we may also ask for your credit card information if you have a paid account. this information is securely stored by our credit card processor, and it is not shared with any 3rd parties., if you have a student account, any teachers linked to your school account will be able to access your login details and data from the games that you have played., a cookie is a small piece of data sent from a web server and stored in a users browser. the browser then sends the cookie back to the server the next time the page is referenced., we use cookies to better understand user behavior and to tell us which parts of our website have been visited. this information allows us to improve performance and to optimize the website to our users needs., third party vendors, including google, use cookies to serve ads based on our users prior visits to our website. googles use of the doubleclick cookie enables it and its partners to serve ads to our users based on your visit to our site and/or other sites on the internet., when you login to arcademics plus, we use cookies to remember your username and session. this allows us to provide a customized experience while you navigate the website., we do not collect personal information from children under 13 years of age. any personal information connected to a childs account is provided by their instructor and consists only of a username and an optional first or last name. we do not have actual knowledge of students age, gender, or any other demographic information., all personal information collected for use on the arcademics website is kept confidential. no personal information is sold, traded, or distributed to other agencies or organizations., faq, how it works, standards, link to us, tell a friend, contact us, about, jobs, affiliates, partners, privacy policy, terms of service, facebook, twitter, instagram, , ]