[from caesar to napoleon.&& the pyramids to the parthenon.&& the trojan war to the civil war—national geographic history draws readers in with more than 5.&&000 years of people.&& places.&& and things to explore..&& want more history? subscribe to get full access. already subscribing? activate your access or sign in..&& copyright © 1996-2015 national geographic societycopyright © 2015-2022 national geographic partners.&& llc. all rights reserved][national geographic history magazine, discoveries, personalities and profiles, milestones, places of the past]national geographic history magazine[][, , renew, subscribe, menu, history magazine, history magazine, history magazine, history magazine, history magazine, pompeiis most recent finds reveal new clues to citys destruction history magazine pompeiis most recent finds reveal new clues to citys destruction, history magazine, face of a 7,500-year-old woman reveals gibraltars earliest humans history magazine face of a 7,500-year-old woman reveals gibraltars earliest humans, history magazine, an alabama shipwreck reveals the untold story of the international slave trade history magazine an alabama shipwreck reveals the untold story of the international slave trade, history magazine, the royal tombs of ur revealed mesopotamias golden splendor history magazine the royal tombs of ur revealed mesopotamias golden splendor, history magazine, once sacred, the oracle at delphi was lost for a millennium. see how it was found. history magazine once sacred, the oracle at delphi was lost for a millennium. see how it was found., history magazine, how archaeologists found the lost city of troy history magazine how archaeologists found the lost city of troy, history magazine, medieval robots? they were just one of this muslim inventors creations history magazine medieval robots? they were just one of this muslim inventors creations, history magazine, china’s greatest naval explorer sailed his treasure fleets as far as east africa history magazine china’s greatest naval explorer sailed his treasure fleets as far as east africa, history magazine, kublai khan did what genghis could not—conquer china history magazine kublai khan did what genghis could not—conquer china, history magazine, worship of this egyptian goddess spread from egypt to england history magazine worship of this egyptian goddess spread from egypt to england, history magazine, this single working mom was europes first professional woman writer history magazine this single working mom was europes first professional woman writer, history magazine, this mighty medieval woman outwitted and outlasted her rivals history magazine this mighty medieval woman outwitted and outlasted her rivals, history magazine, arrested and tortured, the silent sentinels suffered for suffrage history magazine arrested and tortured, the silent sentinels suffered for suffrage, history magazine, did the u.s. plan to drop more than two atomic bombs on japan? history magazine wwii 75 years later did the u.s. plan to drop more than two atomic bombs on japan?, history magazine, wwii 75 years later, the soviet victory in the battle of berlin finished nazi germany history magazine wwii 75 years later the soviet victory in the battle of berlin finished nazi germany, history magazine, wwii 75 years later, fast and lethal, the black death spread more than a mile per day history magazine fast and lethal, the black death spread more than a mile per day, history magazine, at the battle of marathon, athens underdog victory stunned persia history magazine at the battle of marathon, athens underdog victory stunned persia, history magazine, raise a glass! its the 100th anniversary of prohibition. history magazine raise a glass! its the 100th anniversary of prohibition., history magazine, this abandoned east african city once controlled the medieval gold trade history magazine this abandoned east african city once controlled the medieval gold trade, history magazine, en garde! why france was the dueling capital of europe history magazine en garde! why france was the dueling capital of europe, history magazine, we know where the 7 wonders of the ancient world are—except for one history magazine we know where the 7 wonders of the ancient world are—except for one, history magazine, this pharaohs painted tomb was missing its mummy history magazine this pharaohs painted tomb was missing its mummy, history magazine, this abandoned site was once the city of 1,001 churches history magazine this abandoned site was once the city of 1,001 churches, history magazine, what really happened at the gunfight at the o.k. corral? history magazine what really happened at the gunfight at the o.k. corral?, history magazine, terms of use, privacy policy, your california privacy rights, childrens online privacy policy, interest-based ads, about nielsen measurement, do not sell my info, nat geo home, attend a live event, book a trip, buy maps, inspire your kids, shop nat geo, visit the d.c. museum, watch tv, learn about our impact, support our mission, nat geo partners, masthead, press room, advertise with us, subscribe, customer service, renew subscription, manage your subscription, work at nat geo, sign up for our newsletters, contribute to protect the planet, pitch a story]