[researchers analyze the architecture of giant water lilies.&& spines on sticks honor ancestors.&& and a green light helps conserve marine life..&& at up to 10 feet in diameter.&& the floating leaves of giant water lilies (genus victoria) are the largest on earth. in south american waterways.&& they thrive and crowd out other plants. some are sturdy enough to support the weight of a small child—a concept that a new paper in science advances illustrates literally.&& with a photo of a tot curled up on a colossal leaf..&& the species v. cruziana.&& though long known to be strong.&& was little understood until this study analyzed the underside of its leaf.&& where veins branch from one artery to the next in a geometric pattern. the rigid vascular architecture lets the plant spend less energy maintaining its size than other water lilies do; it provides.&& in the lead author’s words.&& “high strength at low cost.” the leaves’ design could be adapted for other applications.&& such as floating platforms of solar panels in the ocean. —hicks wogan.&& human vertebrae threaded on sticks may have been indigenous people’s attempts to reconstruct ancestors’ bodies after graves were looted during spanish rule in peru some 500 years ago. archaeologist jacob bongers studied 192 sets of the spine bones; he says dating shows they were first buried in the early 1500s and threaded on sticks about 40 years later. descendants likely were “picking up the pieces of their dead and trying to put them back together” to restore the integrity of burials or bodies.&& he says. —tom metcalfe.&& attaching green-colored leds to fishing nets called gill nets greatly reduces the amount of marine life caught in them by accident.&& recent tests showed. illuminated nets need less repairing because sea turtles.&& sharks.&& and other species can see and avoid them. the lights reduce bycatch deaths and don’t hurt hauls of targeted fish. —hw.&& copyright © 1996-2015 national geographic societycopyright © 2015-2022 national geographic partners.&& llc. all rights reserved][the secret behind the amazing strength of lily pads and other science news, the hidden strength of giant water lilies, ‘spines on sticks’ honor andean dead, call it a net win for marine life, read this next, tooth from mysterious human relative found in laos, their house has stood 130 years. a new fire era may change that., tree-planting projects abound. which should you support?, a revolutionary team of climbers makes history on everest, go further, animals, environment, history & culture, science, travel, subscriber exclusive content, why are people so dang obsessed with mars?, how viruses shape our world, the era of greyhound racing in the u.s. is coming to an end, see how people have imagined life on mars through history, see how nasa’s new mars rover will explore the red planet, why are people so dang obsessed with mars?, how viruses shape our world, the era of greyhound racing in the u.s. is coming to an end, see how people have imagined life on mars through history, see how nasa’s new mars rover will explore the red planet, why are people so dang obsessed with mars?, how viruses shape our world, the era of greyhound racing in the u.s. is coming to an end, see how people have imagined life on mars through history, see how nasa’s new mars rover will explore the red planet]the secret behind the amazing strength of lily pads and other science news[][, , renew, subscribe, menu, magazine, breakthroughs, science, environment, environment, planet possible, adventure, nightlife: animals after dark, video story paid content nightlife: animals after dark, paid content, how predators get past the trickiest of defenses animals how predators get past the trickiest of defenses, animals, these bats imitate hornets to avoid being eaten by owls animals these bats imitate hornets to avoid being eaten by owls, animals, vaquita porpoises may still recover if illegal fishing ends animals vaquita porpoises may still recover if illegal fishing ends, animals, los angeles mountain lions are becoming inbred animals los angeles mountain lions are becoming inbred, animals, tiny bat makes record-shattering flight with 1500-mile migration animals weird & wild tiny bat makes record-shattering flight with 1500-mile migration, animals, weird & wild, huge fish captured in mekong river suggests some megafish thrive environment planet possible huge fish captured in mekong river suggests some megafish thrive, environment, planet possible, their house has stood 130 years. a new fire era may change that. environment their house has stood 130 years. a new fire era may change that., environment, tree-planting projects abound. which should you support? environment planet possible tree-planting projects abound. which should you support?, environment, planet possible, mining is a polluting business. can new tech make it cleaner? environment planet possible mining is a polluting business. can new tech make it cleaner?, environment, planet possible, philippines reefs are some of the most vibrant—but in peril magazine philippines reefs are some of the most vibrant—but in peril, magazine, the biggest living thing on earth is being nibbled to death environment the biggest living thing on earth is being nibbled to death, environment, this woman navigates the pacific without technology history & culture this woman navigates the pacific without technology, history & culture, how u.s. abortion laws went from nonexistent to acrimonious history & culture how u.s. abortion laws went from nonexistent to acrimonious, history & culture, a viking ship burial held riches—and a surprising mystery history magazine a viking ship burial held riches—and a surprising mystery, history magazine, fleeing violence in venezuela, women migrants face callous indifference history & culture stories of migration fleeing violence in venezuela, women migrants face callous indifference, history & culture, stories of migration, buddhist treasures lay hidden inside these caves for centuries history magazine buddhist treasures lay hidden inside these caves for centuries, history magazine, secret tunnel reveals procession of ancient gods history & culture secret tunnel reveals procession of ancient gods, history & culture, tooth from mysterious human relative found in laos science tooth from mysterious human relative found in laos, science, descending into one of the deepest caves on earth magazine through the lens descending into one of the deepest caves on earth, magazine, through the lens, the secret behind lily pad strength and other science news magazine breakthroughs the secret behind lily pad strength and other science news, magazine, breakthroughs, the first picture of the black hole at the center of our galaxy science the first picture of the black hole at the center of our galaxy, science, lost your smell to covid-19? here’s how to retrain your brain. science coronavirus coverage lost your smell to covid-19? here’s how to retrain your brain., science, coronavirus coverage, a super-long blood moon is coming. heres how to see it. science a super-long blood moon is coming. heres how to see it., science, 10 places where you can ditch your car this summer travel 10 places where you can ditch your car this summer, travel, six parks telling surprising stories of the american south travel six parks telling surprising stories of the american south, travel, discover the natural wonders along georgia’s coast travel discover the natural wonders along georgia’s coast, travel, here’s why hut-hiking is the best way to see new zealand travel here’s why hut-hiking is the best way to see new zealand, travel, these are the 10 most popular national parks travel these are the 10 most popular national parks, travel, is saudi arabia ready for travelers? travel world heritage is saudi arabia ready for travelers?, travel, world heritage, magazine, magazine, animals, magazine, magazine, magazine, magazine, animals, magazine, magazine, magazine, magazine, animals, magazine, magazine, terms of use, privacy policy, your california privacy rights, childrens online privacy policy, interest-based ads, about nielsen measurement, do not sell my info, nat geo home, attend a live event, book a trip, buy maps, inspire your kids, shop nat geo, visit the d.c. museum, watch tv, learn about our impact, support our mission, nat geo partners, masthead, press room, advertise with us, subscribe, customer service, renew subscription, manage your subscription, work at nat geo, sign up for our newsletters, contribute to protect the planet, pitch a story]