[lindsay’s dedication to helping medically fragile infants is inspired by her own experience as a mother and milk donor during her daughter’s extended nicu stay. formerly the executive director of the barth syndrome foundation and with fernley & fernley.&& an association management company.&& lindsay has an mba from rowan university and a bachelor’s degree in marketing from rutgers university. lindsay brings to hmbana high powered executive leadership skills with a distinct focus on operations.&& board and membership development.&& and fundraising..&& tarah is a neonatologist who has dedicated her research career to the use of donor human milk in the preterm population. she has conducted observational and interventional trials with donor milk and enjoys sharing her work and that of others to expand knowledge of donor milk within the medical community. she has been the medical director of the mother’s milk bank of iowa since 2006. she is a professor of pediatrics at the university of iowa and active clinician and scientist. she obtained her medical degree from the university of wisconsin.&& and her residency and fellowship training at oregon health & sciences university..&& for the last 10 years.&& leslie has simultaneously served multiple nonprofit organizations in fort worth.&& including hmbana.&& mothers’ milk bank of north texas.&& the junior league of fort worth.&& and several area churches. with her prior background of over a decade in corporate accounting management.&& leslie shares with hmbana her proficiencies in the areas of analysis.&& internal controls.&& and compliance. leslie has bachelors degrees of business administration in management and in accounting from the university of texas at arlington..&& kimberly strongly believes that human milk is “liquid gold” and that all mothers should have support.&& whether breastfeeding or using donor milk. she is a mother who proudly nursed both of her daughters. kimberly has over 14 years of professional experience managing office operations in a nonprofit setting. she brings an exceptional ability to facilitate communications and support day-to-day administrative.&& financial.&& and operational functions to hmbana. kimberly is a proud graduate of howard university with a bachelor’s degree in political science..&& kentina is an educator.&& consultant.&& advocate.&& and spiritual leader/companion who has dedicated the last 12 years of her life to causes related to reproductive justice.&& comprehensive sexuality education.&& end-of-life care.&& and interreligious dialogue and understanding. as a former nicu chaplain.&& a breastfeeding peer educator.&& and as a mother who nursed her own daughter.&& kentina knows firsthand the life-changing effect that is possible when all mothers have access to compassionate.&& culturally competent.&& full-spectrum breastfeeding education and support.&& including donor milk. kentina earned a bachelor’s degree in public administration from miami university and a master of divinity degree from garrett-evangelical theological seminary. she finds great joy in her identities as a black.&& queer.&& womanist whose lived experiences inform every aspect of her work..&& thanks to the united states breastfeeding committee for the use of their photos on this site..&& powered by firespring.&& for help finding formula during the infant formula shortage.&& review this resource! .&&  .&& ][about, privacy policy, terms & conditions, donation refund policy, automated recurring donation cancellation]hmbana staff[what information do we collect?, personal information you choose to provide, website use information, how do we use the information that you provide to us?, what are cookies?, how do we use information collected from cookies?, notice of new services and changes, how do we secure information transmissions?, how do we protect your information?, how can you access and correct your information?, do we disclose information to outside parties?, what about legally compelled disclosure of information?, permission to use of materials, review this resource][home, about mission & vision staff board frequent questions find a milk bank contact us, mission & vision, staff, board, frequent questions, find a milk bank, contact us, our work publications establish a milk bank, publications, establish a milk bank, how to help donate milk donate money donate time research stay connected, donate milk, donate money, donate time, research, stay connected, news & events news covid-19, news, covid-19, find a milk bank, home, about mission & vision staff board frequent questions find a milk bank contact us, mission & vision, staff, board, frequent questions, find a milk bank, contact us, our work publications establish a milk bank, publications, establish a milk bank, how to help donate milk donate money donate time research stay connected, donate milk, donate money, donate time, research, stay connected, news & events news covid-19, news, covid-19, find a milk bank, mission & vision, staff, board, frequent questions, find a milk bank, contact us, about, our work, how to help, news, find a milk bank, portal login, facebook, , what information do we collect? when you visit our website you may provide us with two types of information: personal information you knowingly choose to disclose that is collected on an individual basis and website use information collected on an aggregate basis as you and others browse our website., personal information you choose to provide we may request that you voluntarily supply us with personal information, including your email address, postal address, home or work telephone number and other personal information for such purposes as correspondence, placing an order, requesting an estimate, or participating in online surveys. if you choose to correspond with us through email, we may retain the content of your email messages together with your email address and our responses. we provide the same protections for these electronic communications that we employ in the maintenance of information received by mail and telephone., website use information similar to other websites, our site may utilize a standard technology called cookies (see explanation below, what are cookies?) and web server logs to collect information about how our website is used. information gathered through cookies and server logs may include the date and time of visits, the pages viewed, time spent at our website, and the sites visited just before and just after ours. this information is collected on an aggregate basis. none of this information is associated with you as an individual., how do we use the information that you provide to us? broadly speaking, we use personal information for purposes of administering our business activities, providing service and support and making available other products and services to our customers and prospective customers. occasionally, we may also use the information we collect to notify you about important changes to our website, new services and special offers we think you will find valuable. the lists used to send you product and service offers are developed and managed under our traditional standards designed to safeguard the security and privacy of all personal information provided by our users. you may at any time to notify us of your desire not to receive these offers., what are cookies? cookies are a feature of web browser software that allows web servers to recognize the computer used to access a website. cookies are small pieces of data that are stored by a users web browser on the users hard drive. cookies can remember what information a user accesses on one web page to simplify subsequent interactions with that website by the same user or to use the information to streamline the users transactions on related web pages. this makes it easier for a user to move from web page to web page and to complete commercial transactions over the internet. cookies should make your online experience easier and more personalized., how do we use information collected from cookies? we use website browser software tools such as cookies and web server logs to gather information about our website users browsing activities, in order to constantly improve our website and better serve our users. this information assists us to design and arrange our web pages in the most user-friendly manner and to continually improve our website to better meet the needs of our users and prospective users. cookies help us collect important business and technical statistics. the information in the cookies lets us trace the paths followed by users to our website as they move from one page to another. web server logs allow us to count how many people visit our website and evaluate our websites visitor capacity. we do not use these technologies to capture your individual email address or any personally identifying information about you., notice of new services and changes occasionally, we may use the information we collect to notify you about important changes to our website, new services and special offers we think you will find valuable. as a user of our website, you will be given the opportunity to notify us of your desire not to receive these offers by clicking on a response box when you receive such an offer or by sending us an email request., how do we secure information transmissions? when you send confidential personal information to us on our website, a secure server software which we have licensed encrypts all information you input before it is sent to us. the information is scrambled en route and decoded once it reaches our website. other email that you may send to us may not be secure unless we advise you that security measures will be in place prior to your transmitting the information. for that reason, we ask that you do not send confidential information such as social security, credit card, or account numbers to us through an unsecured email., how do we protect your information? information security -- we utilize encryption/security software to safeguard the confidentiality of personal information we collect from unauthorized access or disclosure and accidental loss, alteration or destruction. evaluation of information protection practices -- periodically, our operations and business practices are reviewed for compliance with organization policies and procedures governing the security, confidentiality and quality of our information. employee access, training and expectations -- our organization values, ethical standards, policies and practices are committed to the protection of user information. in general, our business practices limit employee access to confidential information, and limit the use and disclosure of such information to authorized persons, processes and transactions., how can you access and correct your information? you may request access to all your personally identifiable information that we collect online and maintain in our database by emailing us using the contact form provided to you within the site structure of our website., do we disclose information to outside parties? we may provide aggregate information about our customers, sales, website traffic patterns and related website information to our affiliates or reputable third parties, but this information will not include personally identifying data, except as otherwise provided in this privacy policy., what about legally compelled disclosure of information? we may disclose information when legally compelled to do so, in other words, when we, in good faith, believe that the law requires it or for the protection of our legal rights., permission to use of materials the right to download and store or output the materials in our website is granted for the users personal use only, and materials may not be reproduced in any edited form. any other reproduction, transmission, performance, display or editing of these materials by any means mechanical or electronic without our express written permission is strictly prohibited. users wishing to obtain permission to reprint or reproduce any materials appearing on this site may contact us directly.]