[.&& .&& .&& statins are drugs used to lower cholesterol. your body needs some cholesterol to work properly. but if you have too much in your blood.&& it can stick to the walls of your arteries and narrow or even block them..&& if diet and exercise dont reduce your cholesterol levels.&& you may need to take cholesterol medicine. often.&& this medicine is a statin. statins interfere with the production of cholesterol in your liver. they lower ldl (bad) cholesterol levels and raise hdl (good) cholesterol levels. this can slow the formation of plaques in your arteries..&& statins are relatively safe for most people. but they are not recommended for pregnant patients or those with active or chronic liver disease. they can also cause serious muscle problems. some statins also interact adversely with other drugs. you may have fewer side effects with one statin drug than another..&& researchers are also studying the use of statins for other conditions..&& food and drug administration.&& the information on this site should not be used as a substitute for professional medical care or advice. contact a health care provider if you have questions about your health.][statins, basics, learn more, see, play and learn, research, resources, for you, summary, start here, diagnosis and tests, related issues, statistics and research, clinical trials, journal articles references and abstracts from medline/pubmed (national library of medicine), find an expert, patient handouts, topic image, stay connected, medical encyclopedia, related health topics, disclaimers]statins: medlineplus[][health topics, drugs & supplements, genetics, medical tests, videos & tools, about medlineplus, about medlineplus, whats new, site map, customer support, health topics, drugs & supplements, genetics, medical tests, videos & tools, summary, start here, diagnosis and tests, related issues, no links available, statistics and research, clinical trials, journal articles, find an expert, patient handouts, cholesterol and statins (food and drug administration) also in spanish, statins: are these cholesterol-lowering drugs right for you? (mayo foundation for medical education and research) also in spanish, pharmacogenetic tests (national library of medicine) also in spanish, are you taking the right treatment for your high cholesterol? (consumer reports), controlling cholesterol with statins (food and drug administration) also in spanish, rhabdomyolysis from statins: whats the risk? (mayo foundation for medical education and research) also in spanish, statin side effects: weigh the benefits and risks (mayo foundation for medical education and research) also in spanish, statins and cancer prevention (national cancer institute), statins and risk of new-onset diabetes mellitus (american heart association), statins: do they cause als? (mayo foundation for medical education and research) also in spanish, could taking statins prevent dementia, disability? (national institute on aging), clinicaltrials.gov: hydroxymethylglutaryl-coa reductase inhibitors (national institutes of health), article: prevention of cardiovascular events and mortality with icosapent ethyl in patients..., article: no association between apoe genotype and lipid lowering with cognitive function..., article: effect of vupanorsen on non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in statin-treated patients..., statins -- see more articles, american heart association, food and drug administration, national heart, lung, and blood institute, cholesterol - drug treatment (medical encyclopedia) also in spanish, how to take statins (medical encyclopedia) also in spanish, cholesterol - drug treatment, how to take statins, cholesterol, cholesterol medicines, hdl: the good cholesterol, ldl: the bad cholesterol, about medlineplus, whats new, site map, customer support, get updates, subscribe to rss, follow us, social media toolkit, nlm web policies, copyright, accessibility, guidelines for links, viewers & players, hhs vulnerability disclosure, medlineplus connect for ehrs, for developers]