[.&& .&& .&& cholesterol is a waxy.&& fat-like substance thats found in all the cells in your body. your body needs some cholesterol to make hormones.&& vitamin d.&& and substances that help you digest foods. your body makes all the cholesterol it needs. cholesterol is also found in foods from animal sources.&& such as egg yolks.&& meat.&& and cheese..&& if you have too much cholesterol in your blood.&& it can combine with other substances in the blood to form plaque. plaque sticks to the walls of your arteries. this buildup of plaque is known as atherosclerosis. it can lead to coronary artery disease.&& where your coronary arteries become narrow or even blocked..&& hdl.&& ldl.&& and vldl are lipoproteins. they are a combination of fat (lipid) and protein. the lipids need to be attached to the proteins so they can move through the blood. different types of lipoproteins have different purposes:.&& the most common cause of high cholesterol is an unhealthy lifestyle. this can include:.&& genetics may also cause people to have high cholesterol. for example.&& familial hypercholesterolemia (fh) is an inherited form of high cholesterol. other medical conditions and certain medicines may also cause high cholesterol..&& a variety of things can raise your risk for high cholesterol:.&& if you have large deposits of plaque in your arteries.&& an area of plaque can rupture (break open). this can cause a blood clot to form on the surface of the plaque. if the clot becomes large enough.&& it can mostly or completely block blood flow in a coronary artery..&& if the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle is reduced or blocked.&& it can cause angina (chest pain) or a heart attack..&& plaque also can build up in other arteries in your body.&& including the arteries that bring oxygen-rich blood to your brain and limbs. this can lead to problems such as carotid artery disease.&& stroke.&& and peripheral arterial disease..&& there are usually no signs or symptoms that you have high cholesterol. there is a blood test to measure your cholesterol level. when and how often you should get this test depends on your age.&& risk factors.&& and family history. the general recommendations are:.&& for people who are age 19 or younger::.&& for people who are age 20 or older::.&& you can lower your cholesterol through heart-healthy lifestyle changes. they include a heart-healthy eating plan.&& weight management.&& and regular physical activity..&& if the lifestyle changes alone do not lower your cholesterol enough.&& you may also need to take medicines. there are several types of cholesterol-lowering drugs available.&& including statins. if you take medicines to lower your cholesterol.&& you still should continue with the lifestyle changes..&& some people with familial hypercholesterolemia (fh) may receive a treatment called lipoprotein apheresis. this treatment uses a filtering machine to remove ldl cholesterol from the blood. then the machine returns the rest of the blood back to the person..&& nih: national heart.&& lung.&& and blood institute.&& the information on this site should not be used as a substitute for professional medical care or advice. contact a health care provider if you have questions about your health.][cholesterol, basics, learn more, see, play and learn, research, resources, for you, summary, what is cholesterol?, what are hdl, ldl, and vldl?, what causes high cholesterol?, what can raise my risk of high cholesterol?, what health problems can high cholesterol cause?, how is high cholesterol diagnosed?, how can i lower my cholesterol?, start here, diagnosis and tests, treatments and therapies, specifics, genetics, videos and tutorials, statistics and research, clinical trials, journal articles references and abstracts from medline/pubmed (national library of medicine), find an expert, children, teenagers, patient handouts, topic image, stay connected, medical encyclopedia, related health topics, national institutes of health, other languages, nih medlineplus magazine, disclaimers]cholesterol | medlineplus[unhealthy eating habits,, lack of physical activity,, smoking,, age., heredity., weight., race., for people who are age 19 or younger:, for people who are age 20 or older:][health topics, drugs & supplements, genetics, medical tests, videos & tools, about medlineplus, about medlineplus, whats new, site map, customer support, health topics, drugs & supplements, genetics, medical tests, videos & tools, summary, start here, diagnosis and tests, treatments and therapies, specifics, genetics, videos and tutorials, statistics and research, clinical trials, journal articles, find an expert, children, teenagers, patient handouts, hdl stands for high-density lipoprotein. it is sometimes called good cholesterol because it carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver. your liver then removes the cholesterol from your body., ldl stands for low-density lipoprotein. it is sometimes called bad cholesterol because a high ldl level leads to the buildup of plaque in your arteries., vldl stands for very low-density lipoprotein. some people also call vldl a bad cholesterol because it too contributes to the buildup of plaque in your arteries. but vldl and ldl are different; vldl mainly carries triglycerides and ldl mainly carries cholesterol., unhealthy eating habits, such as eating lots of bad fats. one type, saturated fat, is found in some meats, dairy products, chocolate, baked goods, and deep-fried and processed foods. another type, trans fat, is in some fried and processed foods. eating these fats can raise your ldl (bad) cholesterol., lack of physical activity, with lots of sitting and little exercise. this lowers your hdl (good) cholesterol., smoking, which lowers hdl cholesterol, especially in women. it also raises your ldl cholesterol., age. your cholesterol levels tend to rise as you get older. even though it is less common, younger people, including children and teens, can also have high cholesterol., heredity. high blood cholesterol can run in families., weight. being overweight or having obesity raises your cholesterol level., race. certain races may have an increased risk of high cholesterol. for example, african americans typically have higher hdl and ldl cholesterol levels than whites., the first test should be between ages 9 to 11, children should have the test again every 5 years, some children may have this test starting at age 2 if there is a family history of high blood cholesterol, heart attack, or stroke, younger adults should have the test every 5 years, men ages 45 to 65 and women ages 55 to 65 should have it every 1 to 2 years, 5 tips: what you should know about high blood cholesterol (national center for complementary and integrative health), control your cholesterol: protect yourself from heart attack and stroke (national institutes of health), what is blood cholesterol? (national heart, lung, and blood institute) also in spanish, cholesterol levels (national library of medicine) also in spanish, fasting for a blood test (national library of medicine) also in spanish, home-use tests - cholesterol (food and drug administration), lipoprotein (a) blood test (national library of medicine) also in spanish, cholesterol drugs for people 75 and older: when you need them -- and when you dont (abim foundation) also in spanish, cholesterol medicines: medlineplus health topic (national library of medicine) also in spanish, cholesterol: top foods to improve your numbers (mayo foundation for medical education and research) also in spanish, how to lower cholesterol with diet: medlineplus health topic (national library of medicine) also in spanish, how to lower cholesterol: medlineplus health topic (national library of medicine) also in spanish, statins: medlineplus health topic (national library of medicine) also in spanish, are chicken eggs good or bad for my cholesterol? (mayo foundation for medical education and research) also in spanish, cholesterol level: can it be too low? (mayo foundation for medical education and research) also in spanish, common misconceptions about cholesterol (american heart association), healthy recipes: low-fat also in spanish, overview of cholesterol and lipid disorders (merck & co., inc.) also in spanish, xanthelasma palpebrarum (visualdx), familial hdl deficiency: medlineplus genetics (national library of medicine), familial hypercholesterolemia: medlineplus genetics (national library of medicine), hepatic lipase deficiency: medlineplus genetics (national library of medicine), learning about familial hypercholesterolemia (national human genome research institute), tangier disease: medlineplus genetics (national library of medicine), cholesterol good and bad (national library of medicine) also in spanish, big, fat world of lipids (national institute of general medical sciences), high cholesterol and natural products: what the science says (national center for complementary and integrative health), high cholesterol facts (centers for disease control and prevention), clinicaltrials.gov: cholesterol (national institutes of health), clinicaltrials.gov: hypercholesterolemia (national institutes of health), clinicaltrials.gov: hyperlipoproteinemia type ii (national institutes of health), clinicaltrials.gov: hyperlipoproteinemia type iii (national institutes of health), article: effectiveness and safety of red yeast rice predominated by monacolin k..., article: gut microbiome responses to dietary intervention with hypocholesterolemic vegetable oils., article: plasma lathosterol measures rates of cholesterol synthesis and efficiency of dietary..., cholesterol -- see more articles, american heart association, national heart, lung, and blood institute, cholesterol and your child (nemours foundation) also in spanish, whats cholesterol? (nemours foundation), dietary fat and cholesterol (boston childrens hospital) also in spanish, what is cholesterol? (nemours foundation) also in spanish, cholesterol and lifestyle (medical encyclopedia) also in spanish, cholesterol testing and results (medical encyclopedia) also in spanish, familial combined hyperlipidemia (medical encyclopedia) also in spanish, familial hypercholesterolemia (medical encyclopedia) also in spanish, high cholesterol - children (medical encyclopedia) also in spanish, apolipoprotein b100, apolipoprotein cii, bile acid sequestrants for cholesterol, cholesterol - drug treatment, cholesterol - what to ask your doctor, cholesterol and lifestyle, cholesterol testing and results, familial combined hyperlipidemia, familial dysbetalipoproteinemia, familial hypercholesterolemia, high blood cholesterol levels, high cholesterol - children, how to take statins, niacin for cholesterol, vldl test, cholesterol levels: what you need to know, cholesterol medicines, dietary fats, hdl: the good cholesterol, heart diseases, how to lower cholesterol, how to lower cholesterol with diet, ldl: the bad cholesterol, nutrition, triglycerides, vldl cholesterol, genetic condition teaches teen importance of heart health, what you do now can prevent heart disease later, about medlineplus, whats new, site map, customer support, get updates, subscribe to rss, follow us, social media toolkit, nlm web policies, copyright, accessibility, guidelines for links, viewers & players, hhs vulnerability disclosure, medlineplus connect for ehrs, for developers]