[][esl lessons, daily word]grammar[][lessons grammar reading vocabulary listening pronunciation slang/idioms, grammar, reading, vocabulary, listening, pronunciation, slang/idioms, esl schools, esl books, esl programs, using the conditional (part 1) - we use the conditional to show a possible situation based on another situation. for example: if a happens, then b will happen., more on using the - heres some specific about how to use the word the., using the past continuous with the simple past tense - past continuous tenses are used to show something that happened in the past and continued for a while., have you ever...? - ever means from the time you were born until now. except for rare exceptions, it can only be used in questions and to answers with a no., using have to, supposed to, and ought to - learn when to use have to, supposed to and ought to., reported speech (part 1) - learn how to use reported speech - reported speech is used to tell or report what someone has said., reported speech (part 2) - learn how to use reported speech in part two of our lesson., reflexive pronouns - learn how to use reflexive pronouns such as: myself, yourself, herself, himself, itself, ourselves, yourselves, and themselves., using because to connect sentences - learn how to use the word because to connect two sentences together., using parallel verbs - when speaking and writing in english, we sometimes use more than one verb to describe what is happening. learn how to use parallel verbs, using wish to talk about the past - learn how to use the word wish when talking about the past., past participles - past participles show something that started in the past, but continues until now. learn how to use past participles., very vs. too - learn what the difference between very and too are, and when to use them., using must as a conclusion - learn how to use the word must to show necessity in a sentence., using wish in the present tense - learn how to use wish in the present tense. when you say i wish... you are talking about something that you want but probably will not happen., the present perfect progressive tense - the present perfect progressive tense talks about how long you have been doing something you started in the past and still continue now., using since and for - learn what the differences are between since and for and when they should be used., using the present perfect tense - learn how to use the present perfect tense to talk about a something that started in the past and continued until now., use to/ used to - there is a little confusion on how to use the words use to and used to. one reason for the confusion is that it is sometimes used as a verb, and sometimes used as an adjective., in, at, on + time or date - do you know which preposition to use before times, days, months and years? here is a reminder..., simple past vs. past progressive tense - learn when its appropriate to use simple past tense versus past progressive tense., using either, neither and too - learn when you should use the word either, neither, or too., simple present vs. present continuous - learn when you should use simple present tense vs. present continuous tense., tag questions - tag questions are questions that are put at the end of a statement to elicit a response from the listener., its and its - misusing the words its and its is a common problem. learn what the difference is and when each should be used., hear and listen to - learn what the difference between hear and listen to are, and when they should be used., see, look at, and watch - learn what the differences are between see, look at and watch and when they each should be used., confused about confusing language? - learn when you should use the word confused, or the word confusing. you wont be confused any more!, irregular past tense verbs -, go + noun - how to use the word go in conjunction with a noun in a sentence., learn basic english grammar - you can learn basic english grammar online for free!, grammar, reading, vocabulary, listening, pronunciation, slang/idioms, q & a, studying abroad, esl schools, articles]