[information for the hms community (updated may 2.&& 2022).&& please click on the accordions below for current campus guidance for harvard medical school..&& update as of may 2.&& 2022:.&& click here for current information about library hours.&& policies.&& and visitors. for questions.&& use the ask countway form. and click here to access a collection of covid-19 information and research..&& before coming to campus each day.&& assess your health. if you are feeling well.&& you do not need to complete crimson clear but please follow the return to campus checklist detailed below. if you are not feeling well or are unsure.&& stay home.&& let your manager know.&& answer the questions on crimson clear.&& and huhs will contact you if you are not cleared to come to campus..&& each member of the harvard community can find their updated testing cadence requirement by logging into crimson clear..&& hms dining is proud to provide a wide variety of culinary options in our campus cafes!  we look forward to seeing you soon..&& visit our website to learn more and find our daily menus. .&& elements café in the new research building is open monday through friday from 7:30 a.m. until 3 p.m. for continuous service. deli.&& grill.&& and daily specials.&& along with grab-and-go snacks.&& salads.&& fresh fruit.&& drinks.&& coffee.&& and more. specific hours are as follows:.&& aliquots café in the new research building is open monday through friday from 7:30 a.m. until 5 p.m. for continuous service.&& featuring grab-and-go breakfast.&& snacks.&& lunch.&& and your favorite espresso beverages..&& courtyard café in the warren alpert building is open monday through friday from 7 a.m. until 2 p.m. for continuous service.&& featuring a deli.&& daily specials.&& grab-and-go snacks.&& salads.&& drinks.&& fresh fruit.&& coffee.&& and more. specific hours are as follows:.&& expanded outdoor seating is now available..&& mobile ordering is available through thrive: good food fast. download the app from the app store or google play for quick and contact-free ordering. with thrive app you can: .&& atrium cafe in tmec is open monday through friday from 7:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. for continuous service.&& featuring grab n go breakfast and lunch options along with your favorite bottled beverages.&& coffee.&& snacks and more!.&& effective march 7.&& 2022.&& hms no longer has pandemic-imposed limitations on events and gatherings. .&& the hms community has successfully adapted to and identified a continued desire for flexibility in where and how we work. visit the hms flexwork initiative webpage for more information.&& including why hms is committed to flexwork.&& how hms defines flexwork.&& resources for staff and for managers/leaders.&& and answers to frequently asked questions..&& for the latest guidance.&& visit the harvard international office’s covid-19 faq for international students and scholars. the faq addresses general travel and visa concerns.&& student issues.&& work authorization applications.&& and more..&& your mental health is important for your overall health and well-being. here are some available resources:.&& manage fear & anxiety balance work/life counseling & mental health services harvard university health services employee assistance program (eap) harvard center for wellness & health promotion cope with stress.&& isolation and quarantine are ways to keep healthy individuals separated from individuals who have tested positive for covid-19 or who have been identified as close contacts who have tested positive. harvard continues to update its protocols to align with the guidance from the cdc and massachusetts department of public health..&& visit harvard university’s quarantine and isolation webpage for the current protocols.&& including when and how to isolate and quarantine..&& monthly and daily parking options on the hms campus continue to be available. for details.&& visit the hms parking & transportation webpage. for parking-related questions.&& please contact the hms commuter services and parking office..&& as we continue returning to our campus and workplaces.&& our commutes may still not look like the pre-pandemic normal. commuteworks.&& a masco service.&& offers some tips for getting back to the lma..&& covid testing is optional for non-residential harvard community members as of april 28.&& 2022. testing is still required for those in campus residences.&& including vanderbilt hall.&& until may 10.&& 2022.&& when it becomes optional. anyone with symptoms or known exposure should continue to test. those who test positive should notify harvard university health services (huhs) through crimson clear. anyone who would still like to test is welcome to do so. refer to the hms testing guide for test kit pick up and drop off locations.&& as well as other details. for further details.&& please refer to the universitys testing & tracing webpage. .&& click here for current travel guidance from harvard university.&& including covid-19 travel requirements.&& the post-travel covid testing and quarantine policy.&& and the requirement to register harvard-related international travel with international sos.&& the university’s emergency response provider..&& the deadline to receive and verify your covid-19 booster is jan. 31.&& 2022. click here for the current covid-19 vaccine information from harvard university.&& including the vaccine and booster requirement.&& vaccination rate.&& resources for planning and scheduling your vaccine and booster.&& and verifying your vaccine and booster..&& for questions about harvard’s covid-19 vaccine and booster requirement.&& click here to access the faqs from harvard university health services..&& all visitors must be informed and abide by current university policies. covid-19 safety awareness training: protection/prevention practices provides current guidance and safety practices. visitors must also be notified that harvard has a vaccination requirement and that they should plan to be fully vaccinated before coming to campus. visitors must not come to campus if they are exhibiting symptoms.&& have been diagnosed with covid-19.&& or have otherwise been instructed to quarantine or isolate..&& 25 shattuck street boston.&& ma 02115 617-432-1000.&& © 2022 by the president and fellows of harvard college][campus alert, mobile main navigation, mobile utility navigation, utility navigation, main navigation, returning to campus, information for the hms community, view frequently asked questions (faqs), updated may 2, countway library, crimson clear, dining, events & gatherings, flexwork initiative, for international students & scholars, health & well-being, additional university health & wellness resources, isolation & quarantine, masks & face coverings, parking, public transportation, reset your commute, commuter rail, mbta summer 2021 service changes, masco shuttles, testing & tracing, travel guidance, vaccine information & verification, visitor policy, frequently asked questions, footer]returning to campus | harvard medical school[covid testing is optional for non-residential harvard community members as of april 28, 2022, anyone with symptoms or known exposure should continue to test, masks are optional in hms and hsdm buildings as of march 7, 2022., if you feel the need to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so., eating and drinking are permitted on campus and at gatherings at hms as of march 7, as they were pre-covid., harvard’s , vaccination,  requirement remain in place., harvard updated its covid-19 travel guidance on april 13, removing the requirements for petitions and attestations., covid-19 travel guidance, students, faculty, staff, and researchers who are traveling internationally must, must, register their harvard-related international travel, with international sos, the university’s emergency response provider., proof of registration is required for international travel reimbursement., additional university health & wellness resources, masks are optional in hms and hsdm buildings as of march 7, 2022., if you feel the need to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so., hms commuter services and parking office, reset your commute, commuter rail, 5-day flex pass:, commuter rail fare expiration extension:, ruggles station reopening:, mbta summer 2021 service changes, masco shuttles, masco shuttles, masco website, covid-19 safety awareness training: protection/prevention practices][education & admissions medical education md admissions masters degree programs phd degree programs online learning (hmx) postgraduate education graduation registrar executive education health info, medical education, md admissions, masters degree programs, phd degree programs, online learning (hmx), postgraduate education, graduation, registrar, executive education, health info, research research departments, centers, initiatives and more blavatnik institute postdoctoral training hms researcher resources countway library of medicine paper chase, research departments, centers, initiatives and more, blavatnik institute, postdoctoral training, hms researcher resources, countway library of medicine, paper chase, news & events news harvard medicine magazine multimedia longwood seminars talks@12 hms live calendar sign up for email communications for media publications archive celebrating 50 years of diversity and inclusion, news, harvard medicine magazine, multimedia, longwood seminars, talks@12, hms live, calendar, sign up for email communications, for media, publications archive, celebrating 50 years of diversity and inclusion, about hms the history of hms campus and culture diversity and inclusion facts and figures hms affiliates lcme accreditation social media hub leadership contact hms office of the dean, the history of hms, campus and culture, diversity and inclusion, facts and figures, hms affiliates, lcme accreditation, social media hub, leadership, contact hms, office of the dean, returning to campus frequently asked questions hms testing guide harvard coronavirus website community messages hms flexwork initiative verify your vaccination keep harvard healthy harvard university health services hms responds to coronavirus covid-19 advisory team resources for those affected by war in ukraine, frequently asked questions, hms testing guide, harvard coronavirus website, community messages, hms flexwork initiative, verify your vaccination, keep harvard healthy, harvard university health services, hms responds to coronavirus, covid-19 advisory team, resources for those affected by war in ukraine, teaching hospitals & affiliates, departments & offices, dental medicine, harvard university, giving, teaching hospitals & affiliates, departments & offices, dental medicine, harvard university, giving, education & admissions medical education md admissions masters degree programs phd degree programs online learning (hmx) postgraduate education graduation registrar executive education health info, medical education, md admissions, masters degree programs, phd degree programs, online learning (hmx), postgraduate education, graduation, registrar, executive education, health info, research research departments, centers, initiatives and more blavatnik institute postdoctoral training hms researcher resources countway library of medicine paper chase, research departments, centers, initiatives and more, blavatnik institute, postdoctoral training, hms researcher resources, countway library of medicine, paper chase, news & events news harvard medicine magazine multimedia longwood seminars talks@12 hms live calendar sign up for email communications for media publications archive celebrating 50 years of diversity and inclusion, news, harvard medicine magazine, multimedia, longwood seminars, talks@12, hms live, calendar, sign up for email communications, for media, publications archive, celebrating 50 years of diversity and inclusion, about hms the history of hms campus and culture diversity and inclusion facts and figures hms affiliates lcme accreditation social media hub leadership contact hms office of the dean, the history of hms, campus and culture, diversity and inclusion, facts and figures, hms affiliates, lcme accreditation, social media hub, leadership, contact hms, office of the dean, returning to campus frequently asked questions hms testing guide harvard coronavirus website community messages hms flexwork initiative verify your vaccination keep harvard healthy harvard university health services hms responds to coronavirus covid-19 advisory team resources for those affected by war in ukraine, frequently asked questions, hms testing guide, harvard coronavirus website, community messages, hms flexwork initiative, verify your vaccination, keep harvard healthy, harvard university health services, hms responds to coronavirus, covid-19 advisory team, resources for those affected by war in ukraine, covid testing is optional for non-residential harvard community members as of april 28, 2022. testing is still required for those in campus residences, including vanderbilt hall, until may 10, 2022, when it becomes optional. anyone with symptoms or known exposure should continue to test. those who test positive should notify harvard university health services (huhs) through crimson clear. anyone who would still like to test is welcome to do so. refer to the hms testing guide for test kit pick up and drop off locations, as well as other details., testing is still required for those in campus residences, including vanderbilt hall, until may 10, 2022, when it becomes optional., anyone with symptoms or known exposure should continue to test. those who test positive should notify harvard university health services (huhs) through crimson clear., anyone who would still like to test is welcome to do so. refer to the hms testing guide for test kit pick up and drop off locations, as well as other details., masks are optional in hms and hsdm buildings as of march 7, 2022. please note that masks are still required in health care facilities, including hsdm clinical facilities, and on university and masco buses and shuttles. those completing isolation or quarantine are also required to wear masks. individual faculty may require masking in classrooms even if masks are not required in classrooms by the school. if you feel the need to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so. everyone should continue carry a mask when coming to campus in case it becomes necessary to wear it. harvard will continue to monitor covid-19 developments and will update masking requirements for the community or for certain populations when necessary., please note that masks are still required in health care facilities, including hsdm clinical facilities, and on university and masco buses and shuttles. those completing isolation or quarantine are also required to wear masks., individual faculty may require masking in classrooms even if masks are not required in classrooms by the school., if you feel the need to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so. everyone should continue carry a mask when coming to campus in case it becomes necessary to wear it., harvard will continue to monitor covid-19 developments and will update masking requirements for the community or for certain populations when necessary., eating and drinking are permitted on campus and at gatherings at hms as of march 7, as they were pre-covid.  there are no longer designated dining spaces, and eating and drinking can commence in all campus locations where allowed., there are no longer designated dining spaces, and eating and drinking can commence in all campus locations where allowed., harvard’s vaccination requirement remain in place.  vaccination remains the best means of protecting ourselves against severe disease, hospitalization, and risk of death., vaccination remains the best means of protecting ourselves against severe disease, hospitalization, and risk of death., harvard updated its covid-19 travel guidance on april 13, removing the requirements for petitions and attestations. harvard travelers who are not vaccinated are no longer required to submit travel petitions for their harvard-related travel within the united states or internationally. vaccinated and boosted harvard travelers are no longer required to submit a vaccination attestation form. as travel still poses risk, individuals should take appropriate precautions before deciding to travel domestically or internationally. travelers must adhere to the covid-19 travel requirements before, during, and after travel. the university remains committed to facilitating travel, which is critical to many of our academic and professional pursuits, under safe conditions. we will continue to adjust the university’s travel guidance and requirements in response to changing conditions. students, faculty, staff, and researchers who are traveling internationally must register their harvard-related international travel with international sos, the university’s emergency response provider. learn more about the benefits of registering international travel with the university’s emergency response provider. proof of registration is required for international travel reimbursement. travelers booking tickets through a harvard preferred agency will automatically be registered with international sos. the latest travel and reimbursement guidance details the reimbursement process., harvard travelers who are not vaccinated are no longer required to submit travel petitions for their harvard-related travel within the united states or internationally., vaccinated and boosted harvard travelers are no longer required to submit a vaccination attestation form., as travel still poses risk, individuals should take appropriate precautions before deciding to travel domestically or internationally. travelers must adhere to the covid-19 travel requirements before, during, and after travel., the university remains committed to facilitating travel, which is critical to many of our academic and professional pursuits, under safe conditions. we will continue to adjust the university’s travel guidance and requirements in response to changing conditions., students, faculty, staff, and researchers who are traveling internationally must register their harvard-related international travel with international sos, the university’s emergency response provider. learn more about the benefits of registering international travel with the university’s emergency response provider., proof of registration is required for international travel reimbursement. travelers booking tickets through a harvard preferred agency will automatically be registered with international sos. the latest travel and reimbursement guidance details the reimbursement process., countway library click here for current information about library hours, policies, and visitors. for questions, use the ask countway form. and click here to access a collection of covid-19 information and research., crimson clear before coming to campus each day, assess your health. if you are feeling well, you do not need to complete crimson clear but please follow the return to campus checklist detailed below. if you are not feeling well or are unsure, stay home, let your manager know, answer the questions on crimson clear, and huhs will contact you if you are not cleared to come to campus. each member of the harvard community can find their updated testing cadence requirement by logging into crimson clear., dining hms dining is proud to provide a wide variety of culinary options in our campus cafes!  we look forward to seeing you soon. visit our website to learn more and find our daily menus.  elements café in the new research building is open monday through friday from 7:30 a.m. until 3 p.m. for continuous service. deli, grill, and daily specials, along with grab-and-go snacks, salads, fresh fruit, drinks, coffee, and more. specific hours are as follows: 7:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m.: breakfast 11:15 a.m. – 2:15 p.m.: lunch open till 3 p.m. for snacks aliquots café in the new research building is open monday through friday from 7:30 a.m. until 5 p.m. for continuous service, featuring grab-and-go breakfast, snacks, lunch, and your favorite espresso beverages. courtyard café in the warren alpert building is open monday through friday from 7 a.m. until 2 p.m. for continuous service, featuring a deli, daily specials, grab-and-go snacks, salads, drinks, fresh fruit, coffee, and more. specific hours are as follows: 7:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m.: breakfast 11:15 a.m. – 2:15 p.m.: lunch open till 3 p.m. for snacks expanded outdoor seating is now available. mobile ordering is available through thrive: good food fast. download the app from the app store or google play for quick and contact-free ordering. with thrive app you can:  order ahead from where you work and skip the line limit contact by using the mobile checkout  choose from the deli at courtyard café and the deli and grill at elements café order your favorite coffee ahead of time at aliquots café atrium cafe in tmec is open monday through friday from 7:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. for continuous service, featuring grab n go breakfast and lunch options along with your favorite bottled beverages, coffee, snacks and more! 7:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. breakfast 11:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. lunch open till 2:00 p.m. for snacks, 7:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m.: breakfast, 11:15 a.m. – 2:15 p.m.: lunch, open till 3 p.m. for snacks, 7:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m.: breakfast, 11:15 a.m. – 2:15 p.m.: lunch, open till 3 p.m. for snacks, order ahead from where you work and skip the line, limit contact by using the mobile checkout , choose from the deli at courtyard café and the deli and grill at elements café, order your favorite coffee ahead of time at aliquots café, 7:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. breakfast, 11:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. lunch, open till 2:00 p.m. for snacks, events & gatherings effective march 7, 2022, hms no longer has pandemic-imposed limitations on events and gatherings. , flexwork initiative the hms community has successfully adapted to and identified a continued desire for flexibility in where and how we work. visit the hms flexwork initiative webpage for more information, including why hms is committed to flexwork, how hms defines flexwork, resources for staff and for managers/leaders, and answers to frequently asked questions., for international students & scholars for the latest guidance, visit the harvard international office’s covid-19 faq for international students and scholars. the faq addresses general travel and visa concerns, student issues, work authorization applications, and more., health & well-being your mental health is important for your overall health and well-being. here are some available resources: watch the hms coping with coronavirus web series for help dealing with daily stress, anxiety, and a range of other emotions reach out to the ombuds office, which is available to support hms, hsdm, and harvard chan school faculty, staff, students, and trainees, as well as affiliate institution appointees, with any issue impacting work or studies, including concerns surrounding covid-19. ombuds melissa brodrick and justin neiman are available for zoom, phone, and skype appointments. call 617-432-4041 or email robin cheung.  review the harvard university health services guide to help manage fear and anxiety. participate in webinars and remote workshops offered by the harvard longwood campus office of employee development and wellness. access the free coronavirus sanity guide, including meditations, podcasts, blog posts, and talks offered by ten percent happier. additional university health & wellness resources manage fear & anxiety balance work/life counseling & mental health services harvard university health services employee assistance program (eap) harvard center for wellness & health promotion cope with stress, watch the hms coping with coronavirus web series for help dealing with daily stress, anxiety, and a range of other emotions, reach out to the ombuds office, which is available to support hms, hsdm, and harvard chan school faculty, staff, students, and trainees, as well as affiliate institution appointees, with any issue impacting work or studies, including concerns surrounding covid-19. ombuds melissa brodrick and justin neiman are available for zoom, phone, and skype appointments. call 617-432-4041 or email robin cheung. , review the harvard university health services guide to help manage fear and anxiety., participate in webinars and remote workshops offered by the harvard longwood campus office of employee development and wellness., access the free coronavirus sanity guide, including meditations, podcasts, blog posts, and talks offered by ten percent happier., isolation & quarantine isolation and quarantine are ways to keep healthy individuals separated from individuals who have tested positive for covid-19 or who have been identified as close contacts who have tested positive. harvard continues to update its protocols to align with the guidance from the cdc and massachusetts department of public health. visit harvard university’s quarantine and isolation webpage for the current protocols, including when and how to isolate and quarantine., masks & face coverings masks are optional in hms and hsdm buildings as of march 7, 2022. please note that masks are still required in health care facilities, including hsdm clinical facilities, and on university and masco buses and shuttles. those completing isolation or quarantine are also required to wear masks. individual faculty may require masking in classrooms even if masks are not required in classrooms by the school. if you feel the need to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so. everyone should continue carry a mask when coming to campus in case it becomes necessary to wear it. harvard will continue to monitor covid-19 developments and will update masking requirements for the community or for certain populations when necessary., masks are optional in hms and hsdm buildings as of march 7, 2022. please note that masks are still required in health care facilities, including hsdm clinical facilities, and on university and masco buses and shuttles. those completing isolation or quarantine are also required to wear masks. individual faculty may require masking in classrooms even if masks are not required in classrooms by the school. if you feel the need to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so. everyone should continue carry a mask when coming to campus in case it becomes necessary to wear it. harvard will continue to monitor covid-19 developments and will update masking requirements for the community or for certain populations when necessary., please note that masks are still required in health care facilities, including hsdm clinical facilities, and on university and masco buses and shuttles. those completing isolation or quarantine are also required to wear masks., individual faculty may require masking in classrooms even if masks are not required in classrooms by the school., if you feel the need to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so. everyone should continue carry a mask when coming to campus in case it becomes necessary to wear it., harvard will continue to monitor covid-19 developments and will update masking requirements for the community or for certain populations when necessary., parking monthly and daily parking options on the hms campus continue to be available. for details, visit the hms parking & transportation webpage. for parking-related questions, please contact the hms commuter services and parking office., public transportation reset your commute as we continue returning to our campus and workplaces, our commutes may still not look like the pre-pandemic normal. commuteworks, a masco service, offers some tips for getting back to the lma. find more comfortable walking routes in your area at walk boston. if you dont have a bike, bluebikes is a great option. try public transit a few days a week to ease back into your commuting routine. all inbound trains now stop at ruggles and jfk/umass. see the new commuter rail schedules. commute at off-peak times if schedule allows to avoid crowding. use mbta-endorsed transit apps to see real-time crowdsourced information for bus and red/orange/blue lines. commuter rail 5-day flex pass: the 5-day flex pass is a pandemic pilot product on the mticket app that provided five days of commuter rail travel within a 30-day period at a 10% discount compared to five round-trip tickets. this pandemic pilot provided an additional option for riders with in-person work schedules limited by the pandemic. with the commonwealth’s state of emergency ending on june 15, the 5-day flex pass pilot will end three months later, on sept. 15. the flex pass will no longer be available for purchase on mticket after sept. 15, though flex passes purchased before that date will continue to be valid until they are used or expire. commuter rail fare expiration extension: commuter rail customers may travel with unused, expired, paper one-way, round-trip, and 10-ride tickets that were valid on march 10, 2020, onboard between june 15, 2021, and sept. 15, 2021. unused mtickets that were valid on march 10, 2020, will also be reissued a final time on sunday, june 20, 2021, with an expiration of sept. 15. customers do not need to take any action – the mbta will automatically push new mtickets to customers’ apps for use until sept. 15. ruggles station reopening: ruggles station has reopened, with a new commuter rail platform allowing an increase in commuter rail trains stopping at ruggles station. all inbound trains on the providence/stoughton, needham, and franklin lines will now stop at ruggles (rather than backtracking to south station or back bay stations). mbta summer 2021 service changes the mbta is adding back service across the system to support increased travel across the region. to see how these changes will impact your commute, please visit the mbta summer 2021 service changes webpage. please share your mbta commuting experience by completing this comment card https://www.masco.org/moving-around-the-lma/mbta-service-feedback. masco shuttles masco shuttles  all seats will be available for passengers on masco vehicles. passengers will be allowed to stand when possible.  masks continue to be required for passengers and drivers while on masco vehicles. no eating or drinking is allowed.  please refer to the masco website for details on mask wearing, cleaning, and disinfecting protocols, physical distancing measures, and other advisories., find more comfortable walking routes in your area at walk boston., if you dont have a bike, bluebikes is a great option., try public transit a few days a week to ease back into your commuting routine., all inbound trains now stop at ruggles and jfk/umass. see the new commuter rail schedules., commute at off-peak times if schedule allows to avoid crowding., use mbta-endorsed transit apps to see real-time crowdsourced information for bus and red/orange/blue lines., 5-day flex pass: the 5-day flex pass is a pandemic pilot product on the mticket app that provided five days of commuter rail travel within a 30-day period at a 10% discount compared to five round-trip tickets. this pandemic pilot provided an additional option for riders with in-person work schedules limited by the pandemic. with the commonwealth’s state of emergency ending on june 15, the 5-day flex pass pilot will end three months later, on sept. 15. the flex pass will no longer be available for purchase on mticket after sept. 15, though flex passes purchased before that date will continue to be valid until they are used or expire., commuter rail fare expiration extension: commuter rail customers may travel with unused, expired, paper one-way, round-trip, and 10-ride tickets that were valid on march 10, 2020, onboard between june 15, 2021, and sept. 15, 2021. unused mtickets that were valid on march 10, 2020, will also be reissued a final time on sunday, june 20, 2021, with an expiration of sept. 15. customers do not need to take any action – the mbta will automatically push new mtickets to customers’ apps for use until sept. 15., ruggles station reopening: ruggles station has reopened, with a new commuter rail platform allowing an increase in commuter rail trains stopping at ruggles station. all inbound trains on the providence/stoughton, needham, and franklin lines will now stop at ruggles (rather than backtracking to south station or back bay stations)., the mbta is adding back service across the system to support increased travel across the region. to see how these changes will impact your commute, please visit the mbta summer 2021 service changes webpage., please share your mbta commuting experience by completing this comment card https://www.masco.org/moving-around-the-lma/mbta-service-feedback., masco shuttles  all seats will be available for passengers on masco vehicles. passengers will be allowed to stand when possible.  masks continue to be required for passengers and drivers while on masco vehicles. no eating or drinking is allowed. , all seats will be available for passengers on masco vehicles. passengers will be allowed to stand when possible. , masks continue to be required for passengers and drivers while on masco vehicles. no eating or drinking is allowed. , please refer to the masco website for details on mask wearing, cleaning, and disinfecting protocols, physical distancing measures, and other advisories., testing & tracing covid testing is optional for non-residential harvard community members as of april 28, 2022. testing is still required for those in campus residences, including vanderbilt hall, until may 10, 2022, when it becomes optional. anyone with symptoms or known exposure should continue to test. those who test positive should notify harvard university health services (huhs) through crimson clear. anyone who would still like to test is welcome to do so. refer to the hms testing guide for test kit pick up and drop off locations, as well as other details. for further details, please refer to the universitys testing & tracing webpage. , travel guidance click here for current travel guidance from harvard university, including covid-19 travel requirements, the post-travel covid testing and quarantine policy, and the requirement to register harvard-related international travel with international sos, the university’s emergency response provider., vaccine information & verification the deadline to receive and verify your covid-19 booster is jan. 31, 2022. click here for the current covid-19 vaccine information from harvard university, including the vaccine and booster requirement, vaccination rate, resources for planning and scheduling your vaccine and booster, and verifying your vaccine and booster. for questions about harvard’s covid-19 vaccine and booster requirement, click here to access the faqs from harvard university health services., visitor policy all visitors must be informed and abide by current university policies. covid-19 safety awareness training: protection/prevention practices provides current guidance and safety practices. visitors must also be notified that harvard has a vaccination requirement and that they should plan to be fully vaccinated before coming to campus. visitors must not come to campus if they are exhibiting symptoms, have been diagnosed with covid-19, or have otherwise been instructed to quarantine or isolate., returning to campus frequently asked questions hms testing guide harvard coronavirus website community messages hms flexwork initiative verify your vaccination keep harvard healthy harvard university health services hms responds to coronavirus covid-19 advisory team resources for those affected by war in ukraine, frequently asked questions, hms testing guide, harvard coronavirus website, community messages, hms flexwork initiative, verify your vaccination, keep harvard healthy, harvard university health services, hms responds to coronavirus, covid-19 advisory team, resources for those affected by war in ukraine, myhms, mission and values, privacy policy, accessibility, contact hms, jobs, harvard medicine magazine, alumni]