[an online marketplace where users can browse for chrome-integrated websites.&& chrome apps.&& extensions.&& and themes.][chrome web store]chrome web store - chrome developers[][what is the chrome web store? an explanation of the chrome web store and why you might want to use it., developer dashboard publish and manage your extensions and themes., frequently asked questions frequently asked questions about the chrome web store., prepare your extension # best practices best practices on how to implement your extension and list it in the chrome web store. internationalize your extension how to internationalize your chrome web store extension. identifying the user how to get the google account identity of a chrome web store user., best practices best practices on how to implement your extension and list it in the chrome web store., internationalize your extension how to internationalize your chrome web store extension., identifying the user how to get the google account identity of a chrome web store user., publish your extension # register as a chrome web store developer how to register as a chrome web store developer. publish in the chrome web store how to publish a new extension or theme to the chrome web store. manage your chrome web store item how to manage an extension or theme (item) in the chrome web store. update your chrome web store item how to update an extension or theme (item) that you previously published on the chrome web store. chrome web store review process an overview of the review process and how enforcement actions result from detected policy violations. troubleshooting chrome web store violations guidelines for understanding why an item was rejected or removed from the chrome web store and how to fix the problem. branding guidelines guidelines for use of google trademarks. content ratings guidelines guidelines about how the chrome web store rates the maturity of content. set up a group publisher how to share ownership of your chrome web store items with other developers. deleting chrome web store developer accounts how to delete a developer or group publisher account on the chrome web store. chrome web store payments deprecation why the payments is deprecated, details about the deprecation timeline, and more., register as a chrome web store developer how to register as a chrome web store developer., publish in the chrome web store how to publish a new extension or theme to the chrome web store., manage your chrome web store item how to manage an extension or theme (item) in the chrome web store., update your chrome web store item how to update an extension or theme (item) that you previously published on the chrome web store., chrome web store review process an overview of the review process and how enforcement actions result from detected policy violations., troubleshooting chrome web store violations guidelines for understanding why an item was rejected or removed from the chrome web store and how to fix the problem., branding guidelines guidelines for use of google trademarks., content ratings guidelines guidelines about how the chrome web store rates the maturity of content., set up a group publisher how to share ownership of your chrome web store items with other developers., deleting chrome web store developer accounts how to delete a developer or group publisher account on the chrome web store., chrome web store payments deprecation why the payments is deprecated, details about the deprecation timeline, and more., item detail pages # supplying images guidelines about the kinds of images you need to supply to the chrome web store. complete your listing information how to add listing information for your chrome web store item. creating a great listing page best practices on how to make a high-quality, engaging listing page for your item in the chrome web store. fill out the privacy fields use the privacy tab to help the chrome web store team review your extension as quickly as possible. prepare to publish: set up payment and distribution how to choose which countries will list your item and who will see it in the chrome web store. enterprise publishing options how to distribute extensions to enterprise users, supplying images guidelines about the kinds of images you need to supply to the chrome web store., complete your listing information how to add listing information for your chrome web store item., creating a great listing page best practices on how to make a high-quality, engaging listing page for your item in the chrome web store., fill out the privacy fields use the privacy tab to help the chrome web store team review your extension as quickly as possible., prepare to publish: set up payment and distribution how to choose which countries will list your item and who will see it in the chrome web store., enterprise publishing options how to distribute extensions to enterprise users, discovery on the chrome web store an overview of how users find items on the chrome web store, and how our editors select items to feature., chrome web store policies # google chrome web store developer agreement the legal agreement governing the relationship between chrome web store developers and the chrome web store. developer program policies chrome web store developer program policies. spam policy faq frequently asked questions about chrome web stores spam policy. deceptive installation tactics faq frequently asked questions about chrome web stores policies on deceptive installation tactics. updated privacy policy & secure handling requirements frequently asked questions about chrome web stores user data policy. google play for education addendum to the google chrome web store developer agreement chrome web store complaint handling faq frequently asked questions about the complaint handling process for the chrome web store., google chrome web store developer agreement the legal agreement governing the relationship between chrome web store developers and the chrome web store., developer program policies chrome web store developer program policies., spam policy faq frequently asked questions about chrome web stores spam policy., deceptive installation tactics faq frequently asked questions about chrome web stores policies on deceptive installation tactics., updated privacy policy & secure handling requirements frequently asked questions about chrome web stores user data policy., google play for education addendum to the google chrome web store developer agreement, chrome web store complaint handling faq frequently asked questions about the complaint handling process for the chrome web store., chrome web store api # using the chrome web store publish api how to programmatically create, update, and publish items in the chrome web store. chrome web store api reference, using the chrome web store publish api how to programmatically create, update, and publish items in the chrome web store., chrome web store api reference, file a bug, view source, web.dev, web fundamentals, case studies, podcasts, twitter, youtube, github]