[help center.&& youre about to leave imdb.com and access the official imdb support community.&& where you will be able to get answers from customer service and other imdb members.&& who are encouraged to help each other to get the most out of our site. often the community provides answers and solutions faster than our staff can respond directly..&& if prompted to login or signup.&& please do not use your imdb or imdbpro account information. the imdb support community is hosted on an external 3rd party website (sprinklr). you can post in the community by creating a new account on sprinklr (youll only need to do this once)..&& notes:.&& .&& imdb general support][sprinklr community access - youre about to leave imdb.com]imdb | help[][imdb.com, imdbpro.com, what is imdb?, why should i register on imdb?, site preferences, imdb site index, imdb login/registration issues, why do i need to enable my cookies on imdb?, how can i access or delete personal information imdb stores about me?, how do i update my email address?, i never received my registration email. how do i login?, when i login it says there was a problem. how do i login?, my watchlist, ratings, and settings are gone. what happened?, why do i get an error message when i try to update my email?, how do i link or unlink my facebook and imdb accounts?, i dont have access to my email, how can i recover my account?, i used a third party linked account to sign up and no longer have access to the account. how do i access my imdb account?, how can i delete my imdb account?, how do i delete my account when i dont have access to the email address?, sprinklr community access - youre about to leave imdb.com, how to effectively report problems, how to report security issues and vulnerabilities, how to report suspicious emails, why is imdb displaying differently on my browser?, whats your phone number?, how do i link to a specific page on your site?, where does the information on imdb come from?, can i use imdb data in my software?, can i use your data in a book/website/magazine?, can i use a photo from your site for my web site or publication?, whats the difference between an imdb page and user profile?, what is the ‘your activity’ page?, faq for the your activity feature, is my activity page private?, user naming - user id, real name, imdb page, how can i change my user id?, how can i upload an avatar to my ‘your activity’ page?, how do i report an inappropriate avatar?, faq for the ‘recently viewed’ feature, you have so much information! where should i start?, how much does using imdb cost?, what is the difference between imdb and imdbpro?, how do i break into show business?, can you help me contact a celebrity listed on imdb?, can you get rid of the ads on your site?, what is an enhanced page?, how can i personalize my advertising settings?, why do i need to enter a captcha?, boards closure faq, what software are you using to run imdb?, hammer software license, why am i being redirected to imdb?, imdb partners, advertise on imdb, content licensing, press information, the imdb community is a public forum. anything you post will be visible to everyone. for issues regarding accounts/billing issues, please contact our support staff privately using the form below., imdb does not provide phone-based support. please click on the link above to post a message/question in our online support community., sprinklr is a third party service provider -- they simply host our community/forum but do not actually provide customer support for imdb and are unable to answer questions directly. for all support-related questions, please click the link above., need more help? visit the official imdb support community powered by sprinklr., issues logging in to imdb? get login help.]