[after more than two years since the start of the pandemic.&& the world is figuring out what the new normal is..&& the spread of the omicron variant has given scientists an unsettling answer: repeatedly.&& sometimes within months..&& by apoorva mandavilli.&& according to state media.&& nearly 1.5 million people have presented with a fever.&& and 56 have died.&& in what the country claimed was its first outbreak of the pandemic..&& by victoria kim.&& the move doubled to 16 the total number of tests available to each u.s. household through a program that debuted over the winter..&& by noah weiland.&& nearly one million people have died from covid in the united states. many of the loved ones they left behind are grieving in a nation that wants to move on..&& by julie bosman.&& mayor eric adams of new york said he did not plan to bring back mask mandates despite a citywide increase in newly confirmed cases driven by omicron subvariants..&& by new york city mayor’s office.&& a judicial gathering at a seaside resort.&& with karaoke included.&& became a superspreader event..&& by jonah e. bromwich.&& plus north korea’s covid strategy and china’s expanding internet censorship..&& by amelia nierenberg.&& american express.&& a sponsor.&& said it would refund the price of the $700-a-person dinners after hearing that the chef.&& rené redzepi.&& tested positive for covid..&& by florence fabricant.&& “if every variant that comes.&& we move into shutdown thoughts.&& we move into panicking.&& we’re not going to function as a city.&&” the mayor said..&& by emma g. fitzsimmons.&& the authors of the new report zeroed in on the uneven distribution of vaccines around the world as one of the major hurdles to overcome..&& by adeel hassan.&& neither is considered a close contact to the first couple.&& according to the administration..&& by isabella grullón paz.&& an estimated 20 million people started trading on their own during the pandemic. some are shifting strategies as stocks tumble.&& while others are getting out..&& by tara siegel bernard.&& researchers analyzed the largest database of private insurance claims in the united states in the first four months after a diagnostic code for long covid was created..&& by pam belluck.&& top economic officials are gathering this week to discuss how to keep pressure on vladimir v. putin without sinking their economies..&& by alan rappeport and patricia cohen.&& advertisement.&& advertisement][the coronavirus pandemic, the covid-19 pandemic, the coronavirus pandemic: latest updatesan hour ago, 70 new york judges went on a montauk retreat. twenty came down with the virus., mayor eric adams resists mask mandates as n.y.c. enters a high alert level for the virus., the world is as vulnerable as ever to pandemics, an expert panel concludes., health systems in the americas should brace for surging virus cases, w.h.o. officials say., ashley biden, president biden’s daughter, and xavier becerra, the health secretary, test positive for the virus., u.s. health officials and scientists are debating plans to pair coronavirus and flu vaccinations in the fall., japan will admit small groups of tourists in june as a test before reopening., highlights, how often can you be infected with the coronavirus?, north korea’s covid outbreak continues to spread., the white house opens up another round of free, at-home virus tests to order through the postal service., the lost americans, vaccine, africa’s first covid-19 vaccine factory hasn’t received a single order, aspen pharmacare, in south africa, was licensed to produce the johnson & johnson vaccine. it was hailed as an answer to africa’s struggle to get access to vaccines., should you still wear a mask?, experts weigh in on where, and when, you can safely take one off., what to do if you’ve lost your covid-19 vaccination card, it never quite fit in your wallet, so it’s no surprise you may have misplaced it by now., charting an omicron infection, following the course of a typical omicron infection., since you’re already getting a flu shot, why not one for covid, too?, scientists and federal health officials are debating plans to pair coronavirus and flu vaccinations in the fall., maps and trackers, coronavirus in the u.s.: latest map and case count, track covid-19 in your area, and get the latest state and county data on cases, deaths, hospitalizations, tests and vaccinations., see how vaccinations are going in your county and state, see where doses have gone, and who is eligible for a shot in each state., coronavirus world map: tracking the global outbreak, the virus has infected and killed millions of people around the world. see detailed maps and charts for each country., coronavirus vaccine tracker, a look at all the vaccines that have reached trials in humans., coronavirus drug and treatment tracker, an updated list of potential treatments for covid-19., schools, with plunging enrollment, a ‘seismic hit’ to public schools, the pandemic has supercharged the decline in the nation’s public school system in ways that experts say will not easily be reversed., nearing a grim milestone: one million u.s. covid deaths, readers ponder an impending horrible milestone. also: grief in our times; college debt; policies and public opinion; students’ letters., my college students are not ok, late assignments, failed tests, sleeping in class: welcome to the pandemic-era university., why is the supreme court so secretive?, readers call for more openness and discuss judicial restraint and the justices’ religious beliefs. also: mask decisions; twitter’s dark side; skipping school., lincoln college to close, hurt by pandemic and ransomware attack, the predominantly black college in illinois will cease operations friday after 157 years, having failed to raise millions to recover from the pandemic and a cyberattack that originated in iran., travel, manhattan springs back to life, broadway enthusiasts, art aficionados and food lovers will find new offerings in and around times square and in neighborhoods below 42nd street, heralding the promise of a vibrant recovery., i’m overseas and i’ve tested positive. what now?, extending your vacation as you wait for negative test results — it’s a luxurious thought. but the reality can be expensive and stressful. here’s what you need to know., beijing closes its schools as it tries to contain a coronavirus outbreak., the city is heading into a long holiday weekend, and officials are discouraging travel and unnecessary gatherings., who ended the travel mask mandate? a vaccine critic, a florida judge and 2 anxious travelers, the mask rule on planes and public transportation has been targeted by the travel industry and republican lawmakers. in the end, it was brought down by a little-known nonprofit, a conservative judge and chance., when will the tourists be back?, an industry weathering a long winter looks warily ahead., economy, your friday briefing: the fateful bullet, israeli and palestinian authorities are divided over how to investigate the killing of the al jazeera journalist in the west bank., stock market’s plunge continues on new concerns about global economy., new data from china is adding to worries over high inflation, rising interest rates and supply chain disruptions., u.s. job openings hit a high point, 11.5 million, in march., new government data suggests that the economy remains far from normal as employers struggle to fill jobs and workers seek better positions., the extraordinary wealth created by the pandemic housing market, rarely have so many americans gained so much equity in so little time, but it’s also inseparable from the housing affordability crisis., growth slows to a crawl as war and covid grip the biggest economies, europe’s growth in the first three months of the year was languid as the united states and china struggled to maintain momentum., lives weve lost, stephen wilhite, creator of the gif, is dead at 74, the looping animations known as graphics interchange format quickly became a staple of the internet, although the pronunciation of ‘gif’ was a frequent subject of debate., sidney miller, who championed black music, dies at 89, he founded the influential trade magazine black radio exclusive and presented a popular annual conference that featured unknowns and superstars., hans neuenfels, opera director with a pointed view, dies at 80, a leading proponent of “director’s theater,” he was known for productions with a provocative stamp that often provoked outrage., james bidgood, a master of gay photography, dies at 88, in addition to his elaborately staged images of gay fantasies, he made the film “pink narcissus,” a cult classic released anonymously in 1971., arnie kantrowitz, pioneer of gay liberation, dies at 81, a professor, author and activist, he fought against discrimination because of sexual orientation and for fairness from the media., timesvideo, adams rejects mask mandates as n.y.c. enters high risk virus level, 70 n.y. judges went on a montauk retreat. 20 came down with the virus., your thursday briefing: turkey’s nato block, noma chef won’t attend brooklyn dinner series. so the meals are free., mayor eric adams resists mask mandates as n.y.c. enters a high alert level for the virus., the world is as vulnerable as ever to pandemics, an expert panel concludes., ashley biden, president biden’s daughter, and xavier becerra, the health secretary, test positive for the virus., amateur investors rode the bull up. now the bear looms., over 75 percent of long covid patients were not hospitalized for initial illness, study finds, economic headwinds mount as leaders weigh costs of confronting russia, site information navigation]the covid-19 pandemic - the new york times[][livecovid-19 updates, map and cases, nearing 1 million u.s. deaths, how often can you be infected?, , 70 new york judges went on a montauk retreat. twenty came down with the virus. mayor eric adams resists mask mandates as n.y.c. enters a high alert level for the virus. the world is as vulnerable as ever to pandemics, an expert panel concludes. health systems in the americas should brace for surging virus cases, w.h.o. officials say. ashley biden, president biden’s daughter, and xavier becerra, the health secretary, test positive for the virus. u.s. health officials and scientists are debating plans to pair coronavirus and flu vaccinations in the fall. japan will admit small groups of tourists in june as a test before reopening., 70 new york judges went on a montauk retreat. twenty came down with the virus., mayor eric adams resists mask mandates as n.y.c. enters a high alert level for the virus., the world is as vulnerable as ever to pandemics, an expert panel concludes., health systems in the americas should brace for surging virus cases, w.h.o. officials say., ashley biden, president biden’s daughter, and xavier becerra, the health secretary, test positive for the virus., u.s. health officials and scientists are debating plans to pair coronavirus and flu vaccinations in the fall., japan will admit small groups of tourists in june as a test before reopening., photo creditariana drehsler for the new york times how often can you be infected with the coronavirus? the spread of the omicron variant has given scientists an unsettling answer: repeatedly, sometimes within months. by apoorva mandavilli, photo creditkyodo, via reuters north korea’s covid outbreak continues to spread. according to state media, nearly 1.5 million people have presented with a fever, and 56 have died, in what the country claimed was its first outbreak of the pandemic. by victoria kim photo creditjim wilson/the new york times the white house opens up another round of free, at-home virus tests to order through the postal service. the move doubled to 16 the total number of tests available to each u.s. household through a program that debuted over the winter. by noah weiland photo creditjosh chaney for the new york times the lost americans nearly one million people have died from covid in the united states. many of the loved ones they left behind are grieving in a nation that wants to move on. by julie bosman, photo creditkyodo, via reuters north korea’s covid outbreak continues to spread. according to state media, nearly 1.5 million people have presented with a fever, and 56 have died, in what the country claimed was its first outbreak of the pandemic. by victoria kim, photo creditjim wilson/the new york times the white house opens up another round of free, at-home virus tests to order through the postal service. the move doubled to 16 the total number of tests available to each u.s. household through a program that debuted over the winter. by noah weiland, photo creditjosh chaney for the new york times the lost americans nearly one million people have died from covid in the united states. many of the loved ones they left behind are grieving in a nation that wants to move on. by julie bosman, photo creditsiphiwe sibeko/reuters africa’s first covid-19 vaccine factory hasn’t received a single order aspen pharmacare, in south africa, was licensed to produce the johnson & johnson vaccine. it was hailed as an answer to africa’s struggle to get access to vaccines., photo credittim peacock should you still wear a mask? experts weigh in on where, and when, you can safely take one off., photo creditpaul ratje for the new york times what to do if you’ve lost your covid-19 vaccination card it never quite fit in your wallet, so it’s no surprise you may have misplaced it by now., photo credit charting an omicron infection following the course of a typical omicron infection., photo credittaylor glascock for the new york times since you’re already getting a flu shot, why not one for covid, too? scientists and federal health officials are debating plans to pair coronavirus and flu vaccinations in the fall., photo credit coronavirus in the u.s.: latest map and case count track covid-19 in your area, and get the latest state and county data on cases, deaths, hospitalizations, tests and vaccinations., photo credit see how vaccinations are going in your county and state see where doses have gone, and who is eligible for a shot in each state., photo credit coronavirus world map: tracking the global outbreak the virus has infected and killed millions of people around the world. see detailed maps and charts for each country., photo credit  coronavirus vaccine tracker a look at all the vaccines that have reached trials in humans., photo credit coronavirus drug and treatment tracker an updated list of potential treatments for covid-19., photo creditalisha jucevic for the new york times with plunging enrollment, a ‘seismic hit’ to public schools the pandemic has supercharged the decline in the nation’s public school system in ways that experts say will not easily be reversed., photo creditjim lo scalzo/epa, via shutterstock nearing a grim milestone: one million u.s. covid deaths readers ponder an impending horrible milestone. also: grief in our times; college debt; policies and public opinion; students’ letters., photo creditderek brahney my college students are not ok late assignments, failed tests, sleeping in class: welcome to the pandemic-era university., photo credittom brenner for the new york times why is the supreme court so secretive? readers call for more openness and discuss judicial restraint and the justices’ religious beliefs. also: mask decisions; twitter’s dark side; skipping school., photo creditlincoln college lincoln college to close, hurt by pandemic and ransomware attack the predominantly black college in illinois will cease operations friday after 157 years, having failed to raise millions to recover from the pandemic and a cyberattack that originated in iran., photo creditanna watts for the new york times manhattan springs back to life broadway enthusiasts, art aficionados and food lovers will find new offerings in and around times square and in neighborhoods below 42nd street, heralding the promise of a vibrant recovery., photo creditkiran ridley/getty images i’m overseas and i’ve tested positive. what now? extending your vacation as you wait for negative test results — it’s a luxurious thought. but the reality can be expensive and stressful. here’s what you need to know., photo creditkevin frayer/getty images beijing closes its schools as it tries to contain a coronavirus outbreak. the city is heading into a long holiday weekend, and officials are discouraging travel and unnecessary gatherings., photo creditdaniel slim/agence france-presse — getty images who ended the travel mask mandate? a vaccine critic, a florida judge and 2 anxious travelers the mask rule on planes and public transportation has been targeted by the travel industry and republican lawmakers. in the end, it was brought down by a little-known nonprofit, a conservative judge and chance., photo creditsaeed khan/agence france-presse — getty images when will the tourists be back? an industry weathering a long winter looks warily ahead., photo creditammar awad/reuters your friday briefing: the fateful bullet israeli and palestinian authorities are divided over how to investigate the killing of the al jazeera journalist in the west bank., stock market’s plunge continues on new concerns about global economy. new data from china is adding to worries over high inflation, rising interest rates and supply chain disruptions., photo creditscott mcintyre for the new york times u.s. job openings hit a high point, 11.5 million, in march. new government data suggests that the economy remains far from normal as employers struggle to fill jobs and workers seek better positions., photo credit the extraordinary wealth created by the pandemic housing market rarely have so many americans gained so much equity in so little time, but it’s also inseparable from the housing affordability crisis., photo creditjon nazca/reuters growth slows to a crawl as war and covid grip the biggest economies europe’s growth in the first three months of the year was languid as the united states and china struggled to maintain momentum., photo creditjane kratochvil/webby awards, via associated press stephen wilhite, creator of the gif, is dead at 74 the looping animations known as graphics interchange format quickly became a staple of the internet, although the pronunciation of ‘gif’ was a frequent subject of debate., photo creditvia miller family sidney miller, who championed black music, dies at 89 he founded the influential trade magazine black radio exclusive and presented a popular annual conference that featured unknowns and superstars., photo creditherbert neubauer/epa, via shutterstock hans neuenfels, opera director with a pointed view, dies at 80 a leading proponent of “director’s theater,” he was known for productions with a provocative stamp that often provoked outrage., photo creditvincent tullo for the new york times james bidgood, a master of gay photography, dies at 88 in addition to his elaborately staged images of gay fantasies, he made the film “pink narcissus,” a cult classic released anonymously in 1971., photo creditlarry mass arnie kantrowitz, pioneer of gay liberation, dies at 81 a professor, author and activist, he fought against discrimination because of sexual orientation and for fairness from the media., latest, search search clear this text input, timesvideo adams rejects mask mandates as n.y.c. enters high risk virus level mayor eric adams of new york said he did not plan to bring back mask mandates despite a citywide increase in newly confirmed cases driven by omicron subvariants. by new york city mayor’s office, 70 n.y. judges went on a montauk retreat. 20 came down with the virus. a judicial gathering at a seaside resort, with karaoke included, became a superspreader event. by jonah e. bromwich, your thursday briefing: turkey’s nato block plus north korea’s covid strategy and china’s expanding internet censorship. by amelia nierenberg, noma chef won’t attend brooklyn dinner series. so the meals are free. american express, a sponsor, said it would refund the price of the $700-a-person dinners after hearing that the chef, rené redzepi, tested positive for covid. by florence fabricant, mayor eric adams resists mask mandates as n.y.c. enters a high alert level for the virus. “if every variant that comes, we move into shutdown thoughts, we move into panicking, we’re not going to function as a city,” the mayor said. by emma g. fitzsimmons, the world is as vulnerable as ever to pandemics, an expert panel concludes. the authors of the new report zeroed in on the uneven distribution of vaccines around the world as one of the major hurdles to overcome. by adeel hassan, ashley biden, president biden’s daughter, and xavier becerra, the health secretary, test positive for the virus. neither is considered a close contact to the first couple, according to the administration. by isabella grullón paz, amateur investors rode the bull up. now the bear looms. an estimated 20 million people started trading on their own during the pandemic. some are shifting strategies as stocks tumble, while others are getting out. by tara siegel bernard, over 75 percent of long covid patients were not hospitalized for initial illness, study finds researchers analyzed the largest database of private insurance claims in the united states in the first four months after a diagnostic code for long covid was created. by pam belluck, economic headwinds mount as leaders weigh costs of confronting russia top economic officials are gathering this week to discuss how to keep pressure on vladimir v. putin without sinking their economies. by alan rappeport and patricia cohen, © 2022 the new york times company, nytco, contact us, accessibility, work with us, advertise, t brand studio, your ad choices, privacy policy, terms of service, terms of sale, site map, canada, international, help, subscriptions]