[connect.&& tribune publishing.&& company info.&& copyright © 2022.&& chicago tribune][obituaries,  , notable deaths of 2022, actor fred ward, of ‘sweet home, alabama’ and ‘the right stuff’ fame, dies at age 79, richard franke, former ceo of john nuveen and co-founder of chicago humanities festival, dies at 90, bruce macvittie, ubiquitous character actor, dies at 65, mickey gilley, country music star whose bar inspired the film ‘urban cowboy’ dies at age 86, recommended on chicago tribune, character actor mike hagerty, of ‘friends’ fame, dies at 67, dr. thomas jobe, uic psychiatry professor whose research focused on use of drugs for schizophrenia, dies at 78, ron galella, photographer known for his pursuit of jacqueline kennedy onassis, dies at 91, bob chinn, whose wheeling crab house is a destination for seafood lovers, dies at age 99, eileen mackevich, led chicago humanities festival and lincoln presidential library, dies, cynthia albritton, a.k.a. artist cynthia plaster caster and former chicago mayoral candidate, dies at 74, actor hollis resnik, glittering star of many chicago stages and musicals, is dead at 66, latest on chicagotribune.com, subscriber favorites, liz sheridan, jerry’s doting mom on ‘seinfeld,’ dies at 93, gilbert gottfried, comedian and ‘aladdin’ star, dies at 67, jim ramsey, delivered weather news on channel 9 with ‘mellifluous baritone,’ dies at 69, jack higgins, british author of ‘the eagle has landed’, dies at 92, dr. alfred baker, who developed midwest’s first liver transplant program, dies, bobby rydell, 1960s teen idol and ‘bye bye birdie’ star, dies, ralph wilder, band leader and music teacher, dies at 77, chicago tribune articles group 5, estelle harris, george costanza’s mother in ‘seinfeld’, dies at 93, orestes arrieta, who played baseball in mexico with his dad, minnie miñoso, and worked as a translator in kankakee county, j. ira harris, investment banker who worked with pritzkers and jim harbaugh, dies at 83, marilyn miglin, cosmetics maven on oak street and home shopping network, dies, eugene parker, university of chicago astrophysicist who predicted existence of solar wind, dies at 94, mel jiganti, former state appellate judge and president of illinois judges association, dies, william hurt, star of ‘broadcast news,’ ‘body heat,’ and oscar winner for ‘kiss of the spider woman’ dies at 71]obituaries - chicago tribune[][enewspaper, obituaries, alerts, what to buy, subscribers, advertising, death notice listings, place a death notice, bookmark this page, notable deaths, photos, entertainment actor fred ward, of ‘sweet home, alabama’ and ‘the right stuff’ fame, dies at age 79 fred ward, a veteran actor who brought a gruff tenderness to tough-guy roles in such films as “the right stuff,” “the player” and “tremors,” has died. he was 79. by mark kennedy may 15, 2022, entertainment, obituaries richard franke, former ceo of john nuveen and co-founder of chicago humanities festival, dies at 90 richard j. franke, the ceo of chicago investment bank john nuveen & co. for 22 years, co-founded the chicago humanities festival and helped establish the franke institute for the humanities at the university of chicago. by bob goldsborough may 13, 2022, obituaries, nation & world bruce macvittie, ubiquitous character actor, dies at 65 bruce macvittie, who made his broadway debut in david mamet’s “american buffalo” opposite al pacino in 1983 and was a familiar face on television and in film, died saturday. by barry singer may 12, 2022, nation & world, entertainment mickey gilley, country music star whose bar inspired the film ‘urban cowboy’ dies at age 86 country star mickey gilley, whose namesake texas honky-tonk inspired the 1980 film “urban cowboy” and a nationwide wave of western-themed nightspots, has died. he was 86. by associated press staff may 8, 2022, entertainment, , television character actor mike hagerty, of ‘friends’ fame, dies at 67 mike haggerty, a beloved character actor known for roles on hit network tv sitcoms including “friends,” “cheers,” “seinfeld” and hbo’s “somebody somewhere,” has died at age 67. by karu f. daniels may 6, 2022, television, obituaries dr. thomas jobe, uic psychiatry professor whose research focused on use of drugs for schizophrenia, dies at 78 dr. thomas jobe was a psychiatry professor at the university of illinois at chicago whose research brought into question the theory that schizophrenia patients are better off through the long-term use of antipsychotic medications. by bob goldsborough may 6, 2022, obituaries, nation & world ron galella, photographer known for his pursuit of jacqueline kennedy onassis, dies at 91 ron galella, the photographer known for his visceral celebrity shots and his dogged pursuit of jacqueline kennedy onassis, who sued him and won a restraining order, has died at age 91. by karen matthews may 3, 2022, nation & world, obituaries bob chinn, whose wheeling crab house is a destination for seafood lovers, dies at age 99 bob chinn, whose massive crab house on milwaukee avenue in wheeling was once ranked among the nation’s top restaurants in terms of sales, has died at 99, by bob goldsborough apr 25, 2022, obituaries, obituaries eileen mackevich, led chicago humanities festival and lincoln presidential library, dies eileen mackevich, who cofounded the chicago humanities festival and later was the executive director of the abraham lincoln presidential library and museum in springfield, has died at 82 by bob goldsborough apr 25, 2022, obituaries, entertainment cynthia albritton, a.k.a. artist cynthia plaster caster and former chicago mayoral candidate, dies at 74 cynthia albritton, a.k.a. cynthia plaster caster, the legendary artist and former chicago mayoral candidate, has died after a long illness. by jem aswad apr 21, 2022, entertainment, chris jones actor hollis resnik, glittering star of many chicago stages and musicals, is dead at 66 she was, for decades, a reigning diva of the chicago theater, a rich-voiced star of musicals with a singular presence. by chris jones apr 18, 2022, chris jones, chicago sky’s late run falls short in a 74-71 road loss to the seattle storm 20m, chicago fire snap their 4-game skid but run their winless streak to 8 with a 3-3 draw vs. the new york red bulls 29m, with lucas giolito back and lance lynn perhaps 3 weeks away, the chicago white sox could have 7 starters: ‘we hope we have that problem’ 1h, rookie christopher morel’s special moment pumps life into the chicago cubs’ rebuild plan: ‘it’s so cool’ 2h, as r. kelly’s chicago trial nears, things get testy between defendants 2h, obituaries, rex huppke, ask amy, horoscopes, fun & games: crossword, jumble, read the enewspaper digital edition, this day in history, email. audio. alerts. connect with us, comics, letters to the editor, brad biggs chicago bears newsletter, the spin politics newsletter, manage my subscription, entertainment liz sheridan, jerry’s doting mom on ‘seinfeld,’ dies at 93 liz sheridan, who played doting mom to jerry seinfeld on his hit sitcom, died early friday. she was 93. by lynn elber apr 15, 2022, entertainment, entertainment gilbert gottfried, comedian and ‘aladdin’ star, dies at 67 gilbert gottfried, the comedian, “aladdin” star and owner of one of the most iconic voices in hollywood, has died after battling a long illness, his family announced tuesday. by jordan moreau, variety apr 12, 2022, entertainment, obituaries jim ramsey, delivered weather news on channel 9 with ‘mellifluous baritone,’ dies at 69 jim ramsey, longtime weather forecaster on channel 9 in chicago, has died at 69. by bob goldsborough apr 11, 2022, obituaries, entertainment jack higgins, british author of ‘the eagle has landed’, dies at 92 british author jack higgins, who wrote “the eagle has landed” and other bestselling thrillers and espionage novels, has died. he was 92. by associated press staff apr 10, 2022, entertainment, obituaries dr. alfred baker, who developed midwest’s first liver transplant program, dies dr. alfred l. baker developed the first liver transplant program in the midwest during a long career as a physician at the university of chicago and northwestern university. by bob goldsborough apr 8, 2022, obituaries, entertainment bobby rydell, 1960s teen idol and ‘bye bye birdie’ star, dies bobby rydell, a pompadoured heartthrob of early rock ‘n roll who was a star of radio, television and the movie musical “bye bye birdie,” has died. by andrew dalton apr 6, 2022, entertainment, obituaries ralph wilder, band leader and music teacher, dies at 77 ralph wilder spent decades as a musician fronting his own band and teaching music in the northwest suburbs. by bob goldsborough apr 4, 2022, obituaries, 20% off the 175th anniversary commemorative newspaper book -shop now, challenge yourself with online puzzles & games. play now, commemorate history with the chicago tribune birthday book! -shop now, no-nonsense advice for better living delivered to your inbox every morning. explore now, entertainment estelle harris, george costanza’s mother in ‘seinfeld’, dies at 93 estelle harris, who hollered her way into tv history as george costanza’s short-fused mother on “seinfeld” and voiced mrs. potato head in the “toy story” franchise, has died. she was 93. by jennifer peltz apr 3, 2022, entertainment, obituaries orestes arrieta, who played baseball in mexico with his dad, minnie miñoso, and worked as a translator in kankakee county chicago white sox star minnie minosos son, orestes arrieta, was a minor league ball player and translator in the kankakee county court system. by bob goldsborough mar 25, 2022, obituaries, obituaries j. ira harris, investment banker who worked with pritzkers and jim harbaugh, dies at 83 investment banker j. ira harris played a key role in many corporate pairings and restructurings and worked on several deals for the pritzker family. by bob goldsborough mar 23, 2022, obituaries, obituaries marilyn miglin, cosmetics maven on oak street and home shopping network, dies marilyn miglin was a model turned cosmetics entrepreneur well-known for her oak street salon and her regular appearances on television’s home shopping network. by bob goldsborough mar 21, 2022, obituaries, obituaries eugene parker, university of chicago astrophysicist who predicted existence of solar wind, dies at 94 eugene n. parker, the astrophysicist who predicted the existence of the solar wind, a continuous outpouring of charged particles traveling from the sun at a million mph, died on tuesday at his home in chicago. he was 94. by kenneth chang mar 20, 2022, obituaries, obituaries mel jiganti, former state appellate judge and president of illinois judges association, dies mel jiganti was a cook county circuit court judge before sitting on the state appellate bench for 17 years, and put in a stint as president of the illinois judges association in the early 1990s. by bob goldsborough mar 18, 2022, obituaries, nation & world william hurt, star of ‘broadcast news,’ ‘body heat,’ and oscar winner for ‘kiss of the spider woman’ dies at 71 william hurt, the oscar-winning actor of “broadcast news,” “body heat” and “the big chill,” has died. he was 71. by jake coyle mar 13, 2022, nation & world, , , , , new york daily news, orlando sentinel, the morning call of pa., daily press of va., the daily meal, the baltimore sun, sun sentinel of fla., hartford courant, the virginian-pilot, studio 1847, careers, help center, terms of service, contact us, manage web notifications, media kit, about us, privacy policy, archives, local print ads, chicago tribune store, do not sell my personal information]