[photos: go inside chicago bears otas at halas hall.&& got something to say? connect with the tribune on facebook..&& connect.&& tribune publishing.&& company info.&& copyright © 2022.&& chicago tribune][chicago cubs, , rookie christopher morel’s special moment pumps life into the chicago cubs’ rebuild plan: ‘it’s so cool’, max scherzer pulls himself out of his start with left side discomfort in mets win over cards, christopher morel and brandon hughes make splashy debuts in a 7-0 chicago cubs win after getting their 1st mlb call-ups, donn pall, a former white sox and cubs pitcher, has his evergreen park number retired: ‘who would ever think this would be happening for me?’, willson contreras’ 1st-inning grand slam — his 100th career home run — sparks the chicago cubs’ 9-0 win, anthony rizzo is third yankee slugger to hit double-digit homers in 2022, andrelton simmons’ return provides the chicago cubs a timely boost with shortstop nico hoerner on the injured list, column: mlb needs to change the definition of a no-hitter and reward the cincinnati reds pitchers for making history, sign up for the chicago tribune sports newsletter, photos see more photos articles, cubs photo galleries, albert pujols makes his 1st career pitching appearance — and gives up 2 homers — in a st. louis cardinals win, 3 takeaways from the chicago cubs road trip, including justin steele answering a challenge for shorter at-bats, cincinnati reds allow no hits and still lose to the pittsburgh pirates — only the 6th time since 1901 that has happened, keith hernandez’s football anecdote, mic’d umpires and more: mlb broadcasts’ hilarious moments of the week, willson contreras’ hot start for the chicago cubs is rooted in his approach: ‘one of the most talented hitters i’ve ever been around’, chicago cubs prospect ed howard is facing a lengthy absence after suffering a significant hip injury, drew smyly reaches 10 years of mlb service time — something the chicago cubs pitcher doesn’t take lightly, most read in sports, editors picks, nico hoerner and seiya suzuki remain day to day with ankle injuries and are out of the chicago cubs lineup, column: anthony rizzo has no regrets over his ‘bad breakup’ with the chicago cubs — ‘i wish them well’, how the chicago cubs’ aggressive base-running approach — ‘pushing the envelope’ — is paying off, nico hoerner suffers a sprained right ankle in a collision with an umpire during the chicago cubs’ 7-5 win, seiya suzuki and yu darvish share a special moment before the chicago cubs-san diego padres game, frank schwindel falls just short of a pinch-hit grand slam in the chicago cubs’ 5-4 loss: ‘that’s one you dream of as a kid’, nick madrigal and michael hermosillo land on the injured list, and seiya suzuki is scratched from the chicago cubs lineup, latest in sports, angels rookie reid detmers throws no-hitter against tampa bay, mlb’s second of the season, kyle hendricks dazzles for chicago cubs in a near complete game — while seiya suzuki escapes serious injury in the 6-0 win, wade miley will make his chicago cubs debut tonight, coming off the injured list to add stability to the rotation, after a quick recall by the chicago cubs, can frank schwindel get on track to avoid a trip to the minors?, chicago cubs lose 7-1 to get swept by the los angeles dodgers, their 14th loss in 17 games, column: it might be ‘tough to watch’ at times, but seiya suzuki and the chicago cubs are trying to stay patient, ronald acuna jr.’s missing shoe, jose altuve’s unfortunate foul: mlb broadcasts’ hilarious moments of the week, chicago tribune articles group 7]chicago cubs news, scores, roster, schedule & rumors - chicago tribune[][enewspaper, obituaries, alerts, what to buy, subscribers, advertising, what channel is the cubs game on, wrigley field guide, get to know seiya suzuki, follow our writer on twitter, sign up for cubs alerts, chicago cubs rookie christopher morel’s special moment pumps life into the chicago cubs’ rebuild plan: ‘it’s so cool’ christopher morels home run in his first major-league at-bat at wrigley field was a moment chicago cubs fans always will remember. by paul sullivan 2h, chicago cubs, chicago cubs max scherzer pulls himself out of his start with left side discomfort in mets win over cards an uneasy feeling of anxiety or dread, or maybe both, settled over citi field on wednesday night. by deesha thosar 2h, chicago cubs, chicago cubs christopher morel and brandon hughes make splashy debuts in a 7-0 chicago cubs win after getting their 1st mlb call-ups call-ups christopher morel and brandon hughes had big nights in the chicago cubs’ 7-0 victory over the pittsburgh pirates, their fourth straight win. by meghan montemurro may 17, 2022, chicago cubs, sports donn pall, a former white sox and cubs pitcher, has his evergreen park number retired: ‘who would ever think this would be happening for me?’ after the pregame ceremony, the rest of monday night belonged to shepard. the astros rolled to a 10-3 victory over evergreen park. by steve millar may 17, 2022, sports, chicago cubs willson contreras’ 1st-inning grand slam — his 100th career home run — sparks the chicago cubs’ 9-0 win willson contreras hit his 100th career home run on a first-inning grand slam, part of an eight-run inning that fueled the chicago cubs 9-0 win. by meghan montemurro may 16, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports anthony rizzo is third yankee slugger to hit double-digit homers in 2022 with his ninth-inning home run, anthony rizzo joined aaron judge (12) and giancarlo stanton (10) with double-digit home runs. by kristie ackert may 16, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs andrelton simmons’ return provides the chicago cubs a timely boost with shortstop nico hoerner on the injured list after right shoulder soreness limited him during spring training and forced him onto the injured list, andrelton simmons return to the chicago cubs is timely. by meghan montemurro may 16, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports column: mlb needs to change the definition of a no-hitter and reward the cincinnati reds pitchers for making history cincinnati reds pitchers hunter greene and art warren werent credited with a no-hitter despite combining for eight no-hit innings in a loss. heres how the definition of no-hitters changed 31 years ago. by paul sullivan may 16, 2022, breaking sports, chicago bears photos: go inside chicago bears otas at halas hall photos from bears otas at halas hall on may 17, 2022. by brian cassella may 17, 2022, chicago bears, wrigley field: whats new in — and around — the historic ballpark, photos: cubs hall of famer fergie jenkins, photos: cubs 7, pirates 0, photos: cubs hall of famer fergie jenkins, wrigley field: whats new in — and around — the historic ballpark, photos: cubs 9, pirates 0, photos: dodgers 7, cubs 1, city series photos: white sox 4, cubs 3, photos: white sox 3, cubs 1, photos: pirates 4, cubs 3, photos: pirates 4, cubs 3, photos: rays 8, cubs 2 (6), breaking sports albert pujols makes his 1st career pitching appearance — and gives up 2 homers — in a st. louis cardinals win pujols, the st. louis cardinals designated hitter, came into the game as a pitcher for the first time in his career in the ninth inning of a 15-6 win over the san francisco giants. by steve overbey may 15, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs 3 takeaways from the chicago cubs road trip, including justin steele answering a challenge for shorter at-bats chicago cubs pitching coach tommy hottovy gave justin steele a goal: how many batters can he retire on three pitches or fewer? it led to steele’s best start of the season. by meghan montemurro may 15, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports cincinnati reds allow no hits and still lose to the pittsburgh pirates — only the 6th time since 1901 that has happened cincinnati reds pitchers hunter greene and art warren combined to allow zero hits in a complete game, but it didn’t count as a no-hitter — or even a win. by alan saunders may 15, 2022, breaking sports, breaking sports keith hernandez’s football anecdote, mic’d umpires and more: mlb broadcasts’ hilarious moments of the week mlb’s broadcasts aren’t just play by play and commentary of the action on the field. by sarah valenzuela may 15, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs willson contreras’ hot start for the chicago cubs is rooted in his approach: ‘one of the most talented hitters i’ve ever been around’ chicago cubs catcher willson contreras is off to a great offensive start ahead of free agency. by meghan montemurro may 15, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs chicago cubs prospect ed howard is facing a lengthy absence after suffering a significant hip injury it’s a blow for ed howard, who has been limited to only 103 professional games since the chicago cubs drafted him with the no. 16 pick in the 2020 draft out of mount carmel. by meghan montemurro may 14, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs drew smyly reaches 10 years of mlb service time — something the chicago cubs pitcher doesn’t take lightly drew smyly’s ups and downs culminated in the chicago cubs pitcher hitting 10 years of service time in major league baseball last week. by meghan montemurro may 14, 2022, chicago cubs, with lucas giolito back and lance lynn perhaps 3 weeks away, the chicago white sox could have 7 starters: ‘we hope we have that problem’ 1h, column: beef between tim anderson and ozzie guillén? it’s up to the chicago white sox to make sure it’s not a bigger distraction. 5h, christopher morel and brandon hughes make splashy debuts in a 7-0 chicago cubs win after getting their 1st mlb call-ups may 17, the chicago bears are back at halas hall for otas. here’s a position-by-position breakdown of their roster. may 16, rookie christopher morel’s special moment pumps life into the chicago cubs’ rebuild plan: ‘it’s so cool’ 2h, chicago bears 2022 schedule: here’s who they’ll play — and our predictions for each matchup, the chicago bears are back at halas hall for otas. here’s a position-by-position breakdown of their roster., meet the chicago bears’ 11 picks from the 2022 nfl draft, from cornerback kyler gordon to punter trenton gill, what will happen in free agency? who will play in summer league? what to watch for this chicago bulls offseason., who are the coaching options? what will they do in free agency? what to watch for this chicago blackhawks offseason., the arlington heights bears? here’s what to know about the team’s possible move from chicago’s soldier field., here are all the ways to get updates on your favorite teams from chicago tribune sports writers, chicago cubs nico hoerner and seiya suzuki remain day to day with ankle injuries and are out of the chicago cubs lineup seiya suzuki and nico hoerner remain day to day with right ankle soreness, keeping them out of the lineup vs. the arizona diamondbacks. by meghan montemurro may 13, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs column: anthony rizzo has no regrets over his ‘bad breakup’ with the chicago cubs — ‘i wish them well’ new york yankees first baseman anthony rizzo has no hard feelings about his bad breakup last season with the chicago cubs. by paul sullivan may 12, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs how the chicago cubs’ aggressive base-running approach — ‘pushing the envelope’ — is paying off the cubs have been one of the best teams in the majors at taking extra bases. “it is important to have guys in motion, david ross said. by meghan montemurro may 12, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs nico hoerner suffers a sprained right ankle in a collision with an umpire during the chicago cubs’ 7-5 win alfonso rivas hit a go-ahead two-run single, but shortstop nico hoerner suffered a sprained ankle in the chicago cubs 7-5 win. by meghan montemurro may 11, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs seiya suzuki and yu darvish share a special moment before the chicago cubs-san diego padres game japanese stars seiya suzuki and yu darvish shared a special moment before the chicago cubs-san diego padres game at petco park. by meghan montemurro may 11, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs frank schwindel falls just short of a pinch-hit grand slam in the chicago cubs’ 5-4 loss: ‘that’s one you dream of as a kid’ frank schwindel nearly delivered a two-out pinch-hit grand slam in the chicago cubs 5-4 loss to the san diego padres. by meghan montemurro may 11, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs nick madrigal and michael hermosillo land on the injured list, and seiya suzuki is scratched from the chicago cubs lineup the chicago cubs put outfielder michael hermosillo and infielder nick madrigal on the injured list and scratched seiya suzuki from the lineup. by meghan montemurro may 10, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago sky’s late run falls short in a 74-71 road loss to the seattle storm 22m, chicago fire snap their 4-game skid but run their winless streak to 8 with a 3-3 draw vs. the new york red bulls 31m, with lucas giolito back and lance lynn perhaps 3 weeks away, the chicago white sox could have 7 starters: ‘we hope we have that problem’ 1h, rookie christopher morel’s special moment pumps life into the chicago cubs’ rebuild plan: ‘it’s so cool’ 2h, column: beef between tim anderson and ozzie guillén? it’s up to the chicago white sox to make sure it’s not a bigger distraction. 5h, breaking sports angels rookie reid detmers throws no-hitter against tampa bay, mlb’s second of the season angels rookie reid detmers pitched the majors’ second no-hitter this season, cruising after he benefitted from a borderline error call in the seventh inning as los angeles beat the tampa bay rays 12-0 tuesday night. may 10, 2022, breaking sports, chicago cubs kyle hendricks dazzles for chicago cubs in a near complete game — while seiya suzuki escapes serious injury in the 6-0 win right-hander kyle hendricks dazzles in chicago cubs victory against the san diego padres. by meghan montemurro may 10, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs wade miley will make his chicago cubs debut tonight, coming off the injured list to add stability to the rotation left-hander wade miley will come off the injured list tuesday and made his chicago cubs debut against the san diego padres. by meghan montemurro may 10, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs after a quick recall by the chicago cubs, can frank schwindel get on track to avoid a trip to the minors? a nail in his car tire saved frank schwindel from making an unnecessary trip to iowa, as the chicago cubs recalled the first baseman. by meghan montemurro may 9, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs chicago cubs lose 7-1 to get swept by the los angeles dodgers, their 14th loss in 17 games the chicago cubs lost for the 14th time in 17 games. they had only three runs and 15 hits in the three-game sweep. by jay cohen may 8, 2022, chicago cubs, chicago cubs column: it might be ‘tough to watch’ at times, but seiya suzuki and the chicago cubs are trying to stay patient there’s no doubt it will be “tough to watch” the chicago cubs at times, as willson contreras said. but seeing how manager david ross and his team get past this stretch will be interesting to observe. by paul sullivan may 8, 2022, chicago cubs, breaking sports ronald acuna jr.’s missing shoe, jose altuve’s unfortunate foul: mlb broadcasts’ hilarious moments of the week mlb’s broadcasts aren’t just play by play and commentary of the action on the field. by sarah valenzuela may 8, 2022, breaking sports, 20% off the 175th anniversary commemorative newspaper book -shop now, challenge yourself with online puzzles & games. play now, commemorate history with the chicago tribune birthday book! -shop now, no-nonsense advice for better living delivered to your inbox every morning. explore now, , , , , new york daily news, orlando sentinel, the morning call of pa., daily press of va., the daily meal, the baltimore sun, sun sentinel of fla., hartford courant, the virginian-pilot, studio 1847, careers, help center, terms of service, contact us, manage web notifications, media kit, about us, privacy policy, archives, local print ads, chicago tribune store, do not sell my personal information]