[biology + beyond, brain, cosmos, earth, ocean, quanta abstractions, science philanthropy alliance, spark of science, women in science & engineering, neuroscience, why the father of neuroscience, toward the end of his career, preferred to study ants., astronomy, how advanced civilizations could leave us a message of their presence., communication, imani black is working to bring people of color into marine conservation and production., communication, extraterrestrials could take our intergalactic message in entirely the wrong way., forty years ago, a paleontologist pictured earth millions of years from now. his vision is a wake-up call for us today., the next miracle drug might be hiding in a primeval undersea forest., i’m an anthropologist and rarely have i seen such a harmful mix of inaccuracies and stereotypes about indigenous people., get the best of nautilus. become a prime member today., environment, this entrepreneur plans to revive the famous urban ecosystem with a billion oysters., neuroscience, the feeling you could have made a different choice only arises because you have free will. a graphic explanation., technology, language processing programs are notoriously hard to interpret, but smaller versions can provide important insights into how they work., physics, how science is like mythology when it pushes the boundaries of the known., zoology, want to see a power play in a group? behold the mongoose., health, identifying the “first cell” could revolutionize the way we treat cancer., global solutions, like the greening of the world’s financial system, begin with the right story., native and non-native scientists have come together to counter overfishing with an ancient practice., to this philosopher, art is the best method for exploring who and what we are., breeding a variety that can withstand disease and taste better, too., a drop in oxygen levels is putting ocean ecosystems on life support., everybody told me my grief would relent in a year. it only got worse. was there something wrong with me?, tumors grow when cells lose their biological identity. a promising therapeutic might restore their sense of self., nautilus is a different kind of science magazine. our stories take you into the depths of science and spotlight its ripples in our lives and cultures., © 2022 nautilusthink inc, all rights reserved.][“i have to admit, i have a very low opinion of human beings”, channels, he fast-forwarded evolution into the future, what lurks in a drowned forest in alabama?, a viral twitter thread reawakens the dark history of anthropology, the return of new york harbor’s oysters, what regret tells us, researchers gain new understanding from simple ai, as creation stories go, the big bang is a good one, the machiavellians of the animal kingdom, cancer shouldn’t pose a threat to our lives. we should find it first, the power of narrative, the genius of fishing with tidal weirs, neuroscience gets in the way of appreciating art, the race to protect sweet corn, the ocean is having trouble breathing, why i couldn’t get over my brother’s death, can cancer be treated by changing its cells?, nautilus: science connected]home - nautilus | science connected[][, , channels, topics, about, contact us, anthropology, arts, astronomy, communication, economics, environment, evolution, general, genetics, geoscience, health, history, math, microbiology, neuroscience, paleontology, philosophy, physics, psychology, sociology, technology, zoology, , , subscribe, by benjamin ehrlich, may 4, 2022, astronomy we were here how advanced civilizations could leave us a message of their presence. by sean raymond & matt clement may 6, 2022, by sean raymond & matt clement, may 6, 2022, communication a voice for minorities in aquaculture imani black is working to bring people of color into marine conservation and production. by john steele & adrienne day may 4, 2022, by john steele & adrienne day, may 4, 2022, communication we better think twice about what we say to et extraterrestrials could take our intergalactic message in entirely the wrong way. by caleb scharf may 4, 2022, by caleb scharf, may 4, 2022, , , , , , , , , , , , arts he fast-forwarded evolution into the future by ed simon april 27, 2022 arts forty years ago, a paleontologist pictured earth millions of years from now. his vision is a wake-up call for us today., arts, by ed simon, april 27, 2022, arts, explore microbiology what lurks in a drowned forest in alabama? by laura castañón april 25, 2022 ocean the next miracle drug might be hiding in a primeval undersea forest., microbiology, by laura castañón, april 25, 2022, ocean, anthropology a viral twitter thread reawakens the dark history of anthropology by dorsa amir april 21, 2022 anthropology i’m an anthropologist and rarely have i seen such a harmful mix of inaccuracies and stereotypes about indigenous people., anthropology, by dorsa amir, april 21, 2022, anthropology, environment the return of new york harbor’s oysters this entrepreneur plans to revive the famous urban ecosystem with a billion oysters. by john steele & adrienne day april 20, 2022, by john steele & adrienne day, april 20, 2022, neuroscience what regret tells us the feeling you could have made a different choice only arises because you have free will. a graphic explanation. by uta frith, chris frith & alex frith april 19, 2022, by uta frith, chris frith & alex frith, april 19, 2022, technology researchers gain new understanding from simple ai language processing programs are notoriously hard to interpret, but smaller versions can provide important insights into how they work. by mordechai rorvig april 15, 2022, by mordechai rorvig, april 15, 2022, physics as creation stories go, the big bang is a good one how science is like mythology when it pushes the boundaries of the known. by paul m. sutter april 15, 2022, by paul m. sutter, april 15, 2022, zoology the machiavellians of the animal kingdom want to see a power play in a group? behold the mongoose. by lee alan dugatkin april 13, 2022, by lee alan dugatkin, april 13, 2022, health cancer shouldn’t pose a threat to our lives. we should find it first identifying the “first cell” could revolutionize the way we treat cancer. by gayil nalls april 13, 2022, by gayil nalls, april 13, 2022, economics the power of narrative by klaus schwab & thierry malleret april 8, 2022 global solutions, like the greening of the world’s financial system, begin with the right story., economics, by klaus schwab & thierry malleret, april 8, 2022, explore environment the genius of fishing with tidal weirs by kata karáth april 6, 2022 native and non-native scientists have come together to counter overfishing with an ancient practice., environment, by kata karáth, april 6, 2022, philosophy neuroscience gets in the way of appreciating art by kevin berger april 6, 2022 to this philosopher, art is the best method for exploring who and what we are., philosophy, by kevin berger, april 6, 2022, explore genetics the race to protect sweet corn by lela nargi april 6, 2022 breeding a variety that can withstand disease and taste better, too., genetics, by lela nargi, april 6, 2022, explore environment the ocean is having trouble breathing by jessica camille aguirre march 30, 2022 a drop in oxygen levels is putting ocean ecosystems on life support., environment, by jessica camille aguirre, march 30, 2022, explore psychology why i couldn’t get over my brother’s death by mary x. dennis march 30, 2022 everybody told me my grief would relent in a year. it only got worse. was there something wrong with me?, psychology, by mary x. dennis, march 30, 2022, explore health can cancer be treated by changing its cells? by lina zeldovich march 26, 2022 tumors grow when cells lose their biological identity. a promising therapeutic might restore their sense of self., health, by lina zeldovich, march 26, 2022, home, about us, contact, faq, prime, ebook, donate, awards and press, privacy policy, terms of service, rss, jobs, , ]