[your college search begins here.&& we launched academicinfo with a mission to provide free.&& independent and accurate information and resources for prospective and current students..&& explore our listings of colleges to discover your education options. we dive into the weeds and provide you with acceptance statistics.&& student count and more..&& what career options do you have after graduation? we look into the details of degree programs regarding employement opportunities.&& career path and more..&& this site was founded by librarian mike madin in 1998. after more than 20 years on the internet.&& academicinfo has become the premier website for education and university related information and reviews..&& while we do our very best to provide accurate and up-to-date information.&& please contact us if you find anything that is either wrong.&& or that you feel is missing from the site..&& copyright © 1998 - 2022 academic info. all rights reserved.][find the next step on your journey, search degrees, discover the schools and degree programs that are right for you, our mission, college rankings, degrees in depth, as referenced by, explore areas of interest, follow your interests and find the next step in your career., arts & design, business, education, engineering, health care, humanities & social sciences, it & computer sciences, law, science, educator in focus, dr. khim kelly - teaching managerial accounting and management controls, educator in focus, julie anand - questioning conventional boundaries through photographic art, educator in focus, seth j. gillihan - think, act, be, degrees by subject, colleges by state, student guide, campus life: what should you expect?, student guide, paying for college 101: introduction, student guide, college prep - heading to the big c?, student guide, the lowdown on college visits, student guide, college application breakdown]online degree programs & online schools[right for you][educator in focus dr. khim kelly - teaching managerial accounting and management controls dr. khim kelly is the kpmg professor of accounting at the kenneth g. dixon school of accounting, university of central florida. dr. kelly received her ph.d. from the university of southern california and previously held faculty positions at the university of waterloo, canada, and nanyang technological university, singapore.read more, educator in focus julie anand - questioning conventional boundaries through photographic art julie anand is associate professor of photography in the school of art and senior sustainability scholar in the julie ann wrigley global institute of sustainability at arizona state university. her projects, informed by a background in ecology and geology, often explore material culture, body/land relations and issues of interdependency/boundary.read more, educator in focus seth j. gillihan - think, act, be seth j. gillihan is a clinical psychologist, best-selling author, podcast host, and creator of the think act be online school. he specializes in mindfulness-centered cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt). seth completed an undergraduate degree at indiana university in biology and french, a master’s degree in community counseling at george wa...read more, student guide campus life: what should you expect? welcome to our campus life section of articles, advice, tips and hints. we aim to cover most of the topics and issues that come to mind when you think about finally heading off to school. after all your hard work in applying to various colleges, writing essays for grants and scholarships and making endless phone calls to admissions and financial aid, shouldn’t this part be fun?read more, student guide paying for college 101: introduction this is the worst part of the entire gearing up for college experience. college-bound students and their parents must fill out reams of financial aid forms, meet strict deadlines and attempt to figure out exactly what they can afford to pay for a college education. it’s complicated, stressful and frustrating, but it can be done, rest assu...read more, student guide college prep - heading to the big c? if you’re in high school, sooner or later you’ll be thinking of going to college. this thought process entails a number of considerations and questions such as:who am i and what do i want to do with my life?considering the economy, should i even go to college right now?how will the college i choose affect my future career?read more, student guide the lowdown on college visits college visits rank very high in your overall preparation for college. being on the campus when other students are around will give you a good sense of whether you like the place or not. your dream college might be set in a large city, but when you get there and sense the harried, hurried city life of the school, it might put you off entirely.read more, student guide college application breakdown what documents do you need to apply to college? college applications ask for the usual basic information about you such as name, gender, age, mailing and permanent address, phone, email, ethnicity, citizenship, high school, secondary school or college, list of extracurricular activities and academic interest area.read more]