[dr. vivek murthy shares his strategies to help heal our nation’s youth., , read full article, if roe were to be undone, the legality of abortion would be up to each state., join healthline and psych central for a 10-day digital disconnect., feeling blah or unfocused? your mental fuel tank could be running low., our mental well-being hub hopes to be a source of truth among all of the noise., managing your mental health doesn’t have to be time consuming or expensive., at healthline, we set high standards of quality, research, and transparency for what we share, ensuring you have access to nothing but the best. here's how:, our brands][, explore by, this just in, more top reads, health conditions, product reviews, spotlight, science and integrity matter to us, explore our sponsored topics]healthline: medical information and health advice you can trust.[][health conditions, discover, plan, connect, shop, vitamins & supplements, sleep, mental health, nutrition, at-home testing, cbd, men’s health, women’s health, u.s. surgeon general: addressing the youth mental health crisis dr. vivek murthy shares his strategies to help heal our nation’s youth. read full article, what happens in the u.s. if roe v. wade is overturned if roe were to be undone, the legality of abortion would be up to each state., the benefits of a social media break (and 30 things to do instead) join healthline and psych central for a 10-day digital disconnect., 8 tips to boost mental energy, in the moment and in the future feeling blah or unfocused? your mental fuel tank could be running low., from the editors: coming together to support mental well-being our mental well-being hub hopes to be a source of truth among all of the noise., the best affordable or free online therapy services of 2022 managing your mental health doesn’t have to be time consuming or expensive., , , , , to ensure accuracy, each of our 20,000+ articles is reviewed by a medical subject matter expert such as a doctor, nurse, or therapist., our recommendations are current and based on research thanks to our diligent health and medical monitoring standards., featured brands are reviewed for medical credibility, business practices, and social impact., about us, contact us, privacy policy, privacy settings, advertising policy, health topics, medical affairs, content integrity, newsletters, © 2005-2022 healthline media a red ventures company. all rights reserved. our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. healthline media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. see additional information.]