nbc news - breaking news & top stories - latest world, us & local news | nbc news russia-ukraine conflict missiles strike lviv in ukraine's west as russia hits cities from the air ahead of eastern offensive live blog: blasts rock lviv in the west as mariupol fights 'to the end' watch: russian missiles strike lviv during nbc news interview women's health 'heartbeat bills': is there a so-called fetal heartbeat at six weeks of pregnancy? opinion the larger problem highlighted by lizelle herrera's dubious abortion arrest religion how some churches' ties to trump-based politics are fueling an exodus of young evangelicals opinion jesus didn’t fall for this. but the maga movement’s politicians and pastors have. top stories u.s. news alex jones’ infowars files for bankruptcy following sandy hook lawsuits culture matters 'better call saul' is back for one last scam. the stakes have never been higher. 4 major shootings in the u.s. over easter weekend man told employer not to celebrate his birthday. he was awarded $450,000 after unwanted party. panic at boston's logan airport after playstation sparks evacuation, bomb squad call ship freed from chesapeake bay after being stuck for more than a month 2 men dead, 2 in critical condition after boat capsizes off connecticut coast think: opinions, essays and analyses opinion the uniquely american psychological phenomenon fueling our road rage crisis opinion the huge problem with mayor eric adams’ response to the nyc subway attack opinion 'fantastic beasts' ditches johnny depp's baggage — but adds trump's opinion why is gas so expensive? here's the question we should be asking instead culture matters 'the first lady' reframes u.s. leadership through the eyes of the women behind the scenes politics nbcblk the louisiana candidate making headlines for viral ads smoking a blunt, burning confederate flag elections lawmakers worry 2020 will provide a blueprint for stealing a future election congress who lost biden's agenda? democrats offer competing theories for failure of 'build back better' white house biden to host summit with leaders from southeast asia in d.c. racial reckoning residents of new jersey town say mayor's racist comments are reflection of bigoted history white house biden to host summit with leaders from southeast asia in d.c. racial reckoning residents of new jersey town say mayor's racist comments are reflection of bigoted history coronavirus coronavirus covid cases are on the rise, yet few precautions have come back. why? coronavirus she was hospitalized for covid months ago. her only ticket out is a new pair of lungs. coronavirus fury in shanghai as covid restrictions are blamed for deaths, cause rare protest meet the press covid infections rise, but hospitalizations remain low coronavirus as covid cases rise, here are the latest cdc guidelines for testing and isolation meet the press covid infections rise, but hospitalizations remain low coronavirus as covid cases rise, here are the latest cdc guidelines for testing and isolation out community voices a digital map is helping lgbtq people find queer-owned businesses near them travel planning a wedding is going to cost a whole lot more this year top videos nbc news watch: russian missiles strike lviv during nbc news interview nightly news millions travel for holiday weekend as covid cases rise nbc news channel 43-vehicle pileup closes florida freeway nbc news channel colorado wildfire forces evacuations editors' picks the data point how many taxpayers are procrastinators? nearly 1 in 3, irs data shows health news bald eagles dying, egg prices rising: bird flu spreads to more than 30 states crypto he struggled with a gambling addiction — and says crypto casinos only made things worse tech news elon musk has a plan for twitter. it may scare away users and advertisers. most read u.s. news man told employer not to celebrate his birthday. he was awarded $450,000 after unwanted party. u.s. news man opened fire at south carolina mall in self-defense, his lawyer says elections lawmakers worry 2020 will provide a blueprint for stealing a future election space a rare planetary alignment is coming, and skywatchers can view it with the naked eye business, tech & media congress congress seeks compromise to boost computer chip industry nightly news credit card debt spikes as inflation rises news tax day laggards: consider filing for extension if in a rush travel planning a wedding is going to cost a whole lot more this year u.s. news elon musk ‘funding secured’ tweets ruled false, court filing suggests travel planning a wedding is going to cost a whole lot more this year u.s. news elon musk ‘funding secured’ tweets ruled false, court filing suggests interactive plan your vote: a tool for state-by-state voting rules ahead of the midterms nbc out out community voices a digital map is helping lgbtq people find queer-owned businesses near them out news gay parents called 'rapists' and 'pedophiles' in amtrak incident out news gay couple files complaint against new york city over denying ivf coverage out pop culture the internet is both a safe space and dark place in 'we're all going to the world's fair' asian america asian america why ali wong's ultrasexual comedy is profound amid fear among asian american women asian america chicago father, 61, in a coma after carjacking asian america 'is it cake?' contestant aims to normalize sights and flavors of filipino cuisine asian america a year after fedex shooting, sikh americans honor victims latino latino 'best is yet to come': latino college internship program celebrates 30 years latino honduran teen trying to reunite with his mother drowns in rio grande river culture matters this child integrated his school in 1914. the case is gaining recognition a century later. culture matters the garcía kids are all grown up — and they have a new show nbcblk mushroom hunter finds unidentified boy's body in indiana woods nbcblk the louisiana candidate making headlines for viral ads smoking a blunt, burning confederate flag nbcblk harris pushes to make black maternal health a national priority u.s. news miami officer convicted in violent arrest of black woman who called police for help see more new from fabletics and rifle paper co. highly rated raised garden beds new from anker and therabody what to buy in april — and what to skip the best gifts for teachers best blenders for smoothies, according to consumer reports the best smart speakers, according to consumer reports best tvs, according to consumer reports the best ellipticals, according to consumer reports the best tablets of 2022, according to consumer reports the best sunscreens of 2022, according to consumer reports best insect repellent, according to consumer reports consumer reports: best and worst air purifiers best robotic vacuums, according to consumer reports best convertible car seats, according to consumer reports science space a rare planetary alignment is coming, and skywatchers can view it with the naked eye china chinese astronauts land after 6 months on space station climate in crisis epa analysis found pandemic spurred sharp dip in emissions latino earliest evidence of maya calendar found inside guatemalan pyramid space u.s. officials confirm first known interstellar meteor struck earth in 2014 space 4 billion-year-old comet, largest ever seen, set to pass through our solar system science news east and horn of africa prep for worst drought in decades  profile sections tv featured more from nbc follow nbc news © 2022 nbc universal russia-ukraine full coverage live updates plan your vote politics covid u.s. news opinion share & save —      coronavirus u.s. news politics world local business health investigations culture matters science sports tech & media decision 2022 video features photos weather select asian america nbcblk nbc latino nbc out today nightly news msnbc meet the press dateline nbc news now think better nightly films stay tuned special features newsletters podcasts cnbc nbc.com nbc learn peacock next steps for vets parent toolkit nbc news site map help    facebook twitter email sms print whatsapp reddit pocket flipboard pinterest linkedin live blog: blasts rock lviv in the west as mariupol fights 'to the end' watch: russian missiles strike lviv during nbc news interview opinion the larger problem highlighted by lizelle herrera's dubious abortion arrest opinion jesus didn’t fall for this. but the maga movement’s politicians and pastors have. mark felix / afp via getty images file u.s. news alex jones’ infowars files for bankruptcy following sandy hook lawsuits greg lewis / amc / sony pictures television culture matters 'better call saul' is back for one last scam. the stakes have never been higher. 4 major shootings in the u.s. over easter weekend man told employer not to celebrate his birthday. he was awarded $450,000 after unwanted party. panic at boston's logan airport after playstation sparks evacuation, bomb squad call ship freed from chesapeake bay after being stuck for more than a month 2 men dead, 2 in critical condition after boat capsizes off connecticut coast medianews group/orange county re / medianews group via getty images opinion the uniquely american psychological phenomenon fueling our road rage crisis alexi rosenfeld / getty images opinion the huge problem with mayor eric adams’ response to the nyc subway attack warner bros. opinion 'fantastic beasts' ditches johnny depp's baggage — but adds trump's chip somodevilla / getty images opinion why is gas so expensive? here's the question we should be asking instead nbc news watch: russian missiles strike lviv during nbc news interview nightly news millions travel for holiday weekend as covid cases rise nbc news channel 43-vehicle pileup closes florida freeway nbc news channel colorado wildfire forces evacuations david paul morris / bloomberg via getty images file the data point how many taxpayers are procrastinators? nearly 1 in 3, irs data shows liu guanguan / china news service via getty images file health news bald eagles dying, egg prices rising: bird flu spreads to more than 30 states hunter french for nbc news crypto he struggled with a gambling addiction — and says crypto casinos only made things worse ryan lash / afp via getty images tech news elon musk has a plan for twitter. it may scare away users and advertisers. google maps u.s. news man told employer not to celebrate his birthday. he was awarded $450,000 after unwanted party. sean rayford / ap u.s. news man opened fire at south carolina mall in self-defense, his lawyer says mandel ngan / afp via getty images file elections lawmakers worry 2020 will provide a blueprint for stealing a future election preston dyches / nasa space a rare planetary alignment is coming, and skywatchers can view it with the naked eye everywhere is queer / google maps out community voices a digital map is helping lgbtq people find queer-owned businesses near them courtesy robbi pierce and neal broverman out news gay parents called 'rapists' and 'pedophiles' in amtrak incident sarah merians out news gay couple files complaint against new york city over denying ivf coverage utopia out pop culture the internet is both a safe space and dark place in 'we're all going to the world's fair' clifton prescod / netflix asian america why ali wong's ultrasexual comedy is profound amid fear among asian american women via gofundme asian america chicago father, 61, in a coma after carjacking annabis photography asian america 'is it cake?' contestant aims to normalize sights and flavors of filipino cuisine jenna watson / the indianapolis star / usa-today network asian america a year after fedex shooting, sikh americans honor victims jahmeel khan-poulson / courtesy juliana lopez latino 'best is yet to come': latino college internship program celebrates 30 years courtesy alvarado sabillón family latino honduran teen trying to reunite with his mother drowns in rio grande river courtesy ronald w. maestas culture matters this child integrated his school in 1914. the case is gaining recognition a century later. hbo max culture matters the garcía kids are all grown up — and they have a new show mushroom hunter finds unidentified boy's body in indiana woods cedric angeles for nbc news nbcblk the louisiana candidate making headlines for viral ads smoking a blunt, burning confederate flag anna moneymaker / getty images nbcblk harris pushes to make black maternal health a national priority adri green u.s. news miami officer convicted in violent arrest of black woman who called police for help about contact help careers ad choices privacy policy do not sell my personal information ca notice terms of service nbc news sitemap advertise