breaking international news & views | reuters reuters home ukraine latest images of war latest stories talking points united states americas europe business asia pacific china middle east africa sports the last read my view reuters site index browse about reuters stay informed information you can trust follow us thomson reuters products refinitiv products +0.06%positive +0.20%positive +0.47%positive -1.08%negative ukrainian authorities said a russian missile attack killed seven people in lviv on monday, the first civilian victims in the western city, while its forces were preventing russia from taking full control of the port city of mariupol in the east where the situation was "extremely difficult". many investors, analysts and investment bankers expect twitter inc's board of directors to reject elon musk's $43 billion acquisition offer in the coming days as inadequate, but how would the social media company then proceed? the benchmark s&p 500 rose on monday as bank of america wrapped up earnings from big u.s. lenders with a better-than-expected quarterly profit, although elevated bond yields weighed on growth and technology stocks. then-president donald trump attempted a coup on jan. 6, 2021, and that will be a centerpiece of committee hearings in congress next month, said democrat jamie raskin, a committee member who led the prosecution of trump's second impeachment. a planned hijab ban if french presidential candidate marine le pen is elected would come "little by little" and would be determined by lawmakers, her allies said on monday of a move critics and allies alike said would be hard to implement. reuters, the news and media division of thomson reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers. build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology. the most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs. the industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals. access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile. browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and insights from worldwide sources and experts. screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks. all quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. see here for a complete list of exchanges and delays. © 2022 reuters. all rights reserved world business legal markets more spx4,395.41 +0.06%positive dji34,521.10 +0.20%positive ftse7,616.38 +0.47%positive n22526,799.71 -1.08%negative europeukraine says first civilians killed in lviv, fighters cling on in mariupol, article with videoapril 18, 2022 · 2:26 pm utc video ukrainian authorities said a russian missile attack killed seven people in lviv on monday, the first civilian victims in the western city, while its forces were preventing russia from taking full control of the port city of mariupol in the east where the situation was "extremely difficult". after russian pullback, ukraine's northern sumy region prepares for new assault russian teacher rejected kremlin propaganda, then paid the price after russian pullback, ukraine's northern sumy region prepares for new assault russian teacher rejected kremlin propaganda, then paid the price businessexplainer: how will twitter's board handle elon musk? many investors, analysts and investment bankers expect twitter inc's board of directors to reject elon musk's $43 billion acquisition offer in the coming days as inadequate, but how would the social media company then proceed?2:29 pm utc musk tweets 'love me tender' days after twitter takeover offer musk tweets 'love me tender' days after twitter takeover offer businesss&p 500 inches higher as strong bofa results offset tech weakness, article with image the benchmark s&p 500 rose on monday as bank of america wrapped up earnings from big u.s. lenders with a better-than-expected quarterly profit, although elevated bond yields weighed on growth and technology stocks.2:20 pm utc gallery future of healththe case for testing pfizer's paxlovid for treating long covid, article with gallery1:08 pm utc gallery chinacovid-shaming pits neighbour against neighbour in locked-down shanghai, article with gallery6:33 am utc united statestrump attempt at a coup to be a focus of u.s. house hearings, lawmaker raskin says then-president donald trump attempted a coup on jan. 6, 2021, and that will be a centerpiece of committee hearings in congress next month, said democrat jamie raskin, a committee member who led the prosecution of trump's second impeachment.undefined ago chargedceo steers electric truck startup rivian through supply chain twilight zone, article with gallery11:49 am utc gallery europeukraine mayor describes 'hard' interrogation by russian captors2:37 pm utc europeputin ally held in ukraine suggests prisoner swap for mariupol forces11:02 am utc europerussia says it launched mass strikes on ukrainian military overnight10:18 am utc europeblasts reported in ukraine's kyiv, lviv, dnipropetrovsk regions7:56 am utc europefour civilians shot dead while fleeing town in ukraine's luhansk region, governor says8:55 am utc worldworld bank to discuss 'next-phase' financing for ukraine, malpass saysundefined ago europeukraine completes questionnaire for eu membership12:17 am utc world business legal breakingviews technology sports gallery united statesu.s. supreme court snubs challenge to state and local tax deduction cap, article with gallery1:58 pm utc gallery united statesj&j settles west virginia opioid litigation for $99 mln, article with gallery3:17 pm utc . updated undefined ago video united stateslawmaker raskin sees hope for u.s. climate legislation this year, article with video2:33 pm utc united statesmexican president slams texas over border trucking disruptions, article with image2:34 pm utc gallery americasmexican president slams opposition for defeating power bill, sees 'treason', article with gallery2:38 pm utc americaschile's lower house votes on dueling pension withdrawal bills, article with image2:58 pm utc . updated undefined ago video americasu.s. arrests 210,000 migrants at mexico border in march, rivaling record highs, article with video9:28 am utc gallery americasmexican president's contentious electricity overhaul defeated in congress, article with gallery6:36 am utc faced with criticism, le pen allies tone down rhetoric on proposed hijab ban, article with imageeurope · april 18, 2022 · 1:39 pm utc a planned hijab ban if french presidential candidate marine le pen is elected would come "little by little" and would be determined by lawmakers, her allies said on monday of a move critics and allies alike said would be hard to implement. europecatalan independence leaders targeted by spyware, rights group says, article with image2:40 pm utc . updated undefined ago europeserbia accuses ukraine and unnamed eu country of air serbia bomb hoaxes, article with image12:54 pm utc europegreece mulls intervention in power prices as energy crisis deepens, article with image11:54 am utc video europethree people injured in riots in sweden, article with videoapril 17, 2022 businessbank of america beats profit estimates on strength in consumer lending, article with image11:48 am utc businesssoaring interest rates weigh on big bank mortgage loan growth, article with image2:13 pm utc gallery businessshanghai factories sputter towards reopening as city aims to ease lockdown, article with gallery10:58 am utc businessu.s. home builder sentiment hits seven-month low in april-nahb, article with image3:27 pm utc . updated undefined ago asia pacificin rare comments, myanmar's suu kyi urges people to 'be united' - source, article with image2:18 pm utc gallery asia pacificu.s. envoy vows 'strongest possible deterrent' over north korea weapons tests, article with gallery9:46 am utc video asia pacificsri lankan president says regrets crisis, expands cabinet ahead of imf talks, article with video2:04 pm utc asia pacificstudy shows 99% on indonesia's most populous island have covid antibodies, article with image11:23 am utc chinachina to step up financial support for industries hit by covid outbreaks, article with image11:55 am utc chinachina's supply chains must be stabilised, vice premier says, article with image5:13 am utc chinaanalysts see less room for china rate cuts after 'conservative' rrr cut, article with image5:15 am utc chinasenior u.s. officials to visit the solomon islands amid china security concerns, article with image10:04 am utc gallery middle eastraisi says iran will target heart of israel if it acts against iranian nation, article with gallery6:34 am utc middle eastturkey says its warplanes hit kurdish militant targets in northern iraq, article with image5:28 am utc gallery middle eastturkey's erdogan condemns israeli 'intervention' at al-aqsa mosque, article with galleryapril 17, 2022 gallery middle eastjerusalem violence puts strain on israel's coalition government, article with galleryapril 17, 2022 gallery africasouth african military deployed to flood-ravaged province, article with gallery1:57 pm utc africajoint west african force says more than 100 insurgents killed in recent weeks, article with image8:47 am utc africalibya's dbeibah heading to algeria for visit, gnu says, article with image12:39 pm utc gallery africaburkina faso mines chamber promises extra security, article with gallery3:19 pm utc . updated undefined ago gallery sportsnba roundup: celtics stun nets with game 1 buzzer-beater, article with gallery4:45 am utc gallery sportsnhl roundup: seven-goal 2nd period highlights blues' latest win, article with gallery3:47 am utc gallery sportsmlb roundup: padres' yu darvish bounces back to beat braves, article with gallery4:34 am utc gallery sportschelsea beat palace 2-0 to book fa cup final against liverpool, article with gallery1:37 am utc world business legal markets breakingviews technology investigations lifestyle about reuters careers reuters news agency brand attribution guidelines reuters leadership reuters fact check reuters diversity report download the app newsletters      westlaw build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology. onesource the most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs. checkpoint the industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals. refinitiv workspace access unmatched financial data, news and content in a highly-customised workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile. refinitiv data catalogue browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market data and insights from worldwide sources and experts. refinitiv world-check screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks. advertise with us advertising guidelines cookies terms of use privacy digital accessibility corrections site feedback