the new york times - breaking news, us news, world news and videos russian missiles strike lviv in western ukraine, killing at least seven in the besieged and broken city of mariupol, ukrainians vow a “fight to the end.” atrocities in ukraine war have deep roots in russian military advertisement china’s economic data hints at cost of zero covid strategy when covid enters the house, what should we do? covid updates: as congress returns from a break, a battle over the $10 billion pandemic aid package will resume. the travel industry is experiencing a “great comeback.” travelers are experiencing chaos. tracking the coronavirus › u.s. hot spots › vaccinations › global hot spots › cases rising fastest cases rising fastest other trackers french candidates’ economic programs hold the key to the election jim farley tries to reinvent ford and catch up to elon musk and tesla the next hurdle in europe’s energy transition: being more enticing than nfts mar-a-lago machine: trump as a modern-day party boss boston marathon live updates: race returns to patriots’ day for a black man hired to undo a confederate legacy, it has not been easy the rising tally of lonely deaths on the streets advertisement charles m. blow a biden blood bath? elizabeth warren: democrats can avoid disaster in november gail collins and bret stephens 2022 is not the year of the optimist margaret renkl sadness and loss are everywhere. books can help. ‘sway’ tony kushner on the republican ‘fantasy’ of a nation controlled by ‘straight white men’ sungjoo yoon what if we stop arguing about book bans, and start talking about books? philip verleger and david g. victor when clean energy accelerates, thank europe ezra klein america has turned its back on its poorest families brad stulberg one part of your life you shouldn’t optimize anna myroniuk i didn’t think my mother would escape putin twice tish harrison warren why it matters that jesus really did rise from the dead ross douthat will democrats soon be locked out of power? david hume kennerly this is what hell looks like the taliban promised them amnesty. then they executed them. jane coaston how loathing golf taught me to confront my own prejudice jessica grose on ‘old enough!’ and the state of american childhoods julia roberts hasn’t changed. but hollywood has. a gas giveaway in chicago indicates that philanthropy stunts are back in style. millennial women are turning to influencers for financial advice, free of latte-shaming. a late night subway session a late night subway session a late night subway session a late night subway session a late night subway session a late night subway session advertisement the morning listen to ‘the daily’ listen to times articles, narrated for you read the dealbook newsletter on tax day, u.s. treasury makes a plea for more i.r.s. funding can the s.e.c. require ‘gag orders’ when it settles cases? disney, built on fairy tales and fantasy, confronts the real world their cheating heart, your damaged retirement plan alex jones’s infowars files for bankruptcy after five weeks, container ship is freed in the chesapeake storm is expected to bring heavy, wet snow to northeast u.s. police search for suspects after two are killed in pittsburgh shooting death toll from pakistani airstrike rises to 45, afghan officials say jury awards $450,000 to man fired over unwanted office birthday party israeli government crisis deepens after closing of major mosque 9 people wounded in south carolina mall shooting, police say as families grieve, grandparents step up drawing my brother’s lifelong struggle my teen lied to me. was i right to ground him? i swapped my reading glasses for magical eyedrops take the weekly health quiz advertisement why you should plant a garden that’s wasp-friendly golden state’s playoff return doesn’t feel like old times paola pivi’s american moment, with a twist review: ‘cyrano de bergerac,’ noseless and drunk on words unity beats rivalry when ukrainians face off with u.s. advertisement spelling bee the crossword letter boxed tiles vertex site information navigation in russia, soldiers’ brutal crimes are rarely acknowledged or punished, leaving it unclear whether the cruelty stems from military command, individuals or both. china’s lockdowns have trapped truck drivers on highways, halted production lines and forced some importers to source goods from outside of the country. after someone in the family tests positive for the coronavirus, there are some guidelines to follow. promising tax cuts, higher wages and changes in the retirement age, president emmanuel macron and marine le pen vie for undecided voters. ford’s chief executive is about to introduce an electric f-150 pickup truck that could determine the automaker’s viability in an industry dominated by tesla. financing the next generation of green energy technologies means larger investments and getting venture capitalists to turn their focus from “fast money.” hoarding cash, doling out favors and seeking to crush rivals, donald trump is behaving as something close to the head of a 19th-century political machine. after three long years, the boston marathon is finally back to its traditional spot in the springtime. here’s how to watch. devon henry’s company has removed 23 monuments in the south, including the robert e. lee statue in virginia, in part because few others were interested. more than ever it has become deadly to be homeless in america, especially for men in their 50s and 60s. “i decided a while ago that i’ll never really understand what people think about me, and i don’t need to,” the actor said. dear diary: i was alone on a subway platform late one night. a trumpet player there was playing a tune. read this entry from metropolitan diary → after a time, a man carrying a guitar case appeared. he listened to the trumpet player for a little while, and then, without speaking, took out his guitar and joined in. before too long, the duo had attracted a percussionist and a man with a long coat and no shirt who danced beautifully to the music. not one of them said a word. a train came and went on the tracks above us, and an older woman ambled down the stairs. “i’ll just take the next one,” she said to no one in particular. and then, to the band: “do you know ‘these foolish things’?” — ben botwick read the rest of this week’s metropolitan diary and submit your own. more metropolitan diary: the west is arming ukraine and punishing russia. today we look at the countries that aren’t. america’s experiment in student debt deferral poses a dilemma for president biden. we collected some great articles and had them read aloud by the reporters who wrote them. gary gensler reflects on his first year as s.e.c. chair. the biden administration is pushing for $80 billion in new funding to modernize the agency and beef up its enforcement staff. the supreme court has been asked to review the practice of silencing defendants in federal cases, which challengers say violates the first amendment. the entertainment behemoth spent decades avoiding even the whiff of controversy. but it has increasingly been drawn into the fray of partisan politics. financial infidelity destroys trust. it can deliver a serious blow to post-career planning, too. those wasps you hate? they’re the best organic pest control around. here’s how to keep them happy (and avoid getting stung). how many words can you make with 7 letters? get clued in with wordplay, every day. create words using letters around the square. match visual elements and keep your chain going. connect the dots to reveal the hidden picture. u.s. international canada español 中文   world u.s. politics n.y. business opinion tech science health sports arts books style food travel magazine t magazine real estate video world u.s. politics n.y. business opinion tech science health sports arts books style food travel magazine t magazine real estate video the city, which has taken in thousands fleeing from the north and east of ukraine, had been relatively untouched by violence since the war began. moscow also unleashed further destruction in recent days on kharkiv and mariupol, major cities in the east of ukraine. here’s the latest. p.r. d.c. mich. pa. county lookup p.r. d.c. mich. pa. county lookup global vaccinations ‘my husband and i got married at the city clerk’s office in february’ ‘my husband and i got married at the city clerk’s office in february’ ‘toward the end of the walk, a bird somewhere ahead burst into song’ ‘toward the end of the walk, a bird somewhere ahead burst into song’       © 2022 the new york times company nytco contact us accessibility work with us advertise t brand studio your ad choices privacy policy terms of service terms of sale site map canada international help subscriptions