the lighter side of science | iflscience long-term benzodiazepine use can cause cognitive impairment and now we know why "very unusual" rise in cases of severe liver damage seen in children across uk, us, and europe rare namibian gemstone makes light-based quantum computers possible is veganism the solution to climate change? what would happen if you jumped into lake natron? you won't turn to stone, but it wouldn't be fun top stories mirror-touch synesthesia, the condition that (literally) makes you feel others' pain more science watch the first komodo dragons to hatch in australia in this adorable video look up! lyrids meteor shower will start lighting up the skies from tonight predicted nova explosion caught launching cosmic rays into interstellar space world’s earliest account of auroras found in 3,000-year-old chinese documents people are more willing to excuse lies they think could one day become true elon musk talks twitter takeover and his understanding of free speech in ted talk teenage gorilla "addicted" to smartphones, but are all electronics for animals bad? stranded dolphin dies in texas after people allegedly tried to ride it tardigrades can hitch rides on snails to get around faster this week in science! ramp up the ambiance & turn down the lights with this smart dimmer plug mystery lead sarcophagus found below fire-damaged notre-dame to be opened popular stories week in science ninety-eight percent of people don’t experience mirror-touch synesthesia. but for the other 2 percen... the australian reptile park recently announced that they have welcomed three komodo dragons in a fir... the lyrids meteor shower will be visible from tonight until the end of the month, peaking late next ... rs ophiuchi went nova in 2021 as expected and astronomers were quick to study it across multiple wav... a reference to five colors in the northern sky is probably the oldest reference to an aurora almost ... a study has found that people are more willing to excuse a lie if they think it might become true in... the head of ted, chris anderson, talks to elon musk about his attempt at buying twitter, his idea fo... a teenage gorilla is being distracted by zoo-goers phones image credit: denis kabanov/shutterstock.... a dolphin that live stranded on a beach died on the texas gulf coast after a group of people pushed ... tardigrades may be able to ride on the backs of snails in order to relocate, yet those that get cove... all the biggest science news stories of the week.... available now for only $26.99 (regularly priced at $32), this smart dimmer plug is not guaranteed to... researchers hope to find out when this body was buried by opening this peculiar sarcofagus.... sign up today to get weekly science coverage direct to your inbox this website uses cookies this website uses cookies to improve user experience. by continuing to use our website you consent to all cookies in accordance with our cookie policy.      environment technology space health and medicine the brain plants and animals physics chemistry policy editor's blog 10 may 2021 pandora is ditching mined diamonds, moving to sustainable lab-made alternatives only navigation home team about careers subscribe contact submit news contact editorial editorial mission correction policy transparency policy legal terms of use privacy policy cookie policy