technology | iflscience technology elon musk talks twitter takeover and his understanding of free speech in ted talk elon musk offers $41 billion in cash to buy twitter project aims to digitally preserve ukraine's landmarks and artifacts threatened by war scientists develop ai camera to take full-color photos in complete darkness mark zuckerberg reveals his employees call him "the eye of sauron" in a "loving" way a parable on the edit button: the tale of julius pringles real "invisibility shield" created by british start-up simple photoshop scams user out of $550,000 bored ape nfts the nuclear missile and bomb market is set to boom by $50 billion this decade 300 drones just rickrolled an entire city in texas elon musk, now on twitter's board, teases idea of edit button and "significant improvements" why does this man's tesla keep detecting activity in an abandoned graveyard? us tested hypersonic missile last month in secret to avoid escalation with russia elon musk just became twitter's largest shareholder what is a patriot missile system, and why do nations want them so much? spot the robot dog has a new job: protecting pompeii inside the strange tale of quadriga, the $215 million bitcoin ponzi scheme china is researching "doomsday trains" capable of launching nuclear weapons russian troops at chornobyl reportedly stole dirty bomb ingredients. should we worry? do you need to shut down your computer every day? popular stories week in science the head of ted, chris anderson, talks to elon musk about his attempt at buying twitter, his idea fo... elon musk has now confirmed that he has offered to buy twitter for about $41 billion in cash... a new project is hoping to 3d scan and digitally preserve an array of cultural relics in ukraine bef... we might not be able to see in the dark, but we can invent infrared cameras to do it for us – and no... well, we guess it's better than something like "gorgon, bringer of death" or, far worse, "the zuck".... people are pointing to the tale of julius pringles as a parable for why an edit button on twitter mi... a uk-based start-up – invisibility shield co – is looking to manufacture a real “invisible shield” t... a scammer stole around $550,000 worth of bored ape nfts in a ridiculously simple way, according to a... the global nuclear bombs and missiles market is set to skyrocket this decade, according to a cheerfu... a company in texas rickrolled an entire city using 300 drones to create a gigantic qr code in the sk... yesterday, it was revealed he had become the largest shareholder of the social media giant and today... one man has encountered an unusual problem with his tesla: it keeps detecting humans that aren't the... the us tested hypersonic missiles in mid-march but kept it quiet to avoid provoking russia, accordin... billionaire elon musk has become the largest shareholder of social media platform twitter owning 9.2... the mim-104 patriot is a surface-to-air missile (sam) system that would go a long way in defending a... spot, the four-legged robot “dog” from boston dynamics, has just been given a new job: protecting th... tens of thousands of other crypto investors lost a collective c$215 million in a ponzi scheme, after... china is reportedly eyeing up the prospect of high-speed “doomsday trains” capable of zooming around... russian troops have reportedly looted a radiation monitoring lab in chornobyl village, apparently ta... should you turn your computer off at night or is it fine to just slap down the laptop screen once yo... sign up today to get weekly science coverage direct to your inbox this website uses cookies this website uses cookies to improve user experience. by continuing to use our website you consent to all cookies in accordance with our cookie policy.      environment technology space health and medicine the brain plants and animals physics chemistry policy editor's blog navigation home team about careers subscribe contact submit news contact editorial editorial mission correction policy transparency policy legal terms of use privacy policy cookie policy