health and medicine | iflscience health and medicine long-term benzodiazepine use can cause cognitive impairment and now we know why "very unusual" rise in cases of severe liver damage seen in children across uk, us, and europe who director calls out global racism and disinterest in conflicts unrelated to ukraine organ harvesting from living victims documented in chinese medical papers, study says could just one mutation in zika virus cause an "explosion" of cases? hearing loss can be reversed with new regenerative therapy, say mit scientists why do we get bags under our eyes when we're tired? drug-resistant "super gonorrhea" could be protected against with existing meningitis vaccine man's premature ejaculation improved by eight times as doctors zap penis with electricity denmark increases its iodine pill stockpiles amid fears of nuclear threat ms symptoms may have been "reversed" in immunotherapy breakthrough single-dose hpv vaccine recommendation is a "game changer" for cervical cancer elimination worrying bird flu outbreak has already impacted over 24 million birds in the us what is taphonomy? the science of death and decay at the uk's first body farm why some heavy smokers manage to avoid lung cancer against the odds new evidence shows blood or plasma donations can reduce the pfas "forever chemicals" in our bodies study links erectile dysfunction meds to blindness, and yes, that includes viagra human skin cells rejuvenated by 30 years with new aging-reversal method over 100 healthcare facilities have been attacked in ukraine, says who people living with gun owners twice as likely to die by homicide, finds study popular stories week in science benzodiazepines are commonly prescribed to treat anxiety and insomnia and while they're considered s... an unusual rise in liver damage cases has been seen in the uk, us and europe, prompting the world he... dr tedros adhanom ghebreyesus called out how little attention conflicts and humanitarian emergencies... china has long been criticized for transplanting organs from executed prisoners; new evidence indica... zika virus, an infectious virus responsible for a global health emergency in 2016, could be just one... so how does this potential cure for hearing loss work? it’s kind of amazing: the drug stimulates pro... notice you get dark circles under your eyes when you're tired? you're not alone. here's why it happe... an existing meningitis vaccine has been found to provide some protection against drug-resistant gono... a new treatment for premature ejaculation has had incredible success in a case study of one male, va... faced with an increasingly “unpredictable” world and worries about the war in ukraine, denmark has d... a new immunotherapy that targets cells infected with epstein-barr virus (ebv) has halted the progres... just one dose of the human papillomavirus (hpv) vaccine is enough to provide sufficient protection a... from the middle of texas to the far reaches of maine, a highly pathogenic bird flu virus is sweeping... body farms teach us much about taphonomy, but without centers across the globe our understanding of ... scientists believe they may have found out why some smokers, against the odds, manage to avoid lung ... a new randomised clinical trial, published in the journal jama network open, has found regularly don... ... researchers have developed a technique to erase the genetic markers of cellular aging, causing human... at least 100 attacks on health care facilities have been recorded in the ongoing conflict in ukraine... according to new research, californians that lawfully have a handgun in their home have double the r... sign up today to get weekly science coverage direct to your inbox this website uses cookies this website uses cookies to improve user experience. by continuing to use our website you consent to all cookies in accordance with our cookie policy.      environment technology space health and medicine the brain plants and animals physics chemistry policy editor's blog navigation home team about careers subscribe contact submit news contact editorial editorial mission correction policy transparency policy legal terms of use privacy policy cookie policy