chemistry | iflscience chemistry how to make your own bismuth crystals at home roman abramovich, ukrainian negotiators suffered suspected "chemical poisoning" at peace talks what to know about uranium and its nuclear uses sunlight may have cleared up to 17 percent of oil from the deepwater horizon disaster we’re all radioactive – so let’s stop being afraid of it “forever chemicals”: new review shows just how much we still don’t know new 2d material is stronger than steel but as light as plastic eco-friendly disinfectant made from sawdust can knock out anthrax, flu, and e. coli proteins that enabled the first life on earth may have been identified world's tiniest antenna built out of dna why can you eat gold but not lead when they're both heavy metals? watch a chicken drumstick dissolve in acid like the world's worst hot tub the chemistry of christmas baubles – and the great scientist who made them possible this is why weed smells so skunky theoretical mineral found in a diamond from deep inside the earth red paint on pre-incan gold mask turns out to be bound with human blood the fatal exploding pants plague of 1930s new zealand many potential sources of "forever chemicals" could be contaminating us drinking water new way to make molecules wins 2021 nobel prize in chemistry secret content revealed in letters between marie-antoinette and her rumored lover popular stories week in science bismuth crystals are inexpensive and quite safe to make in your own home. and they look pretty!... russian oligarch roman abramovich and ukrainian peace negotiators were victims of suspected poisonin... since its discovery over two centuries ago, uranium has become a crucial element for humanity shapin... a process called photo-dissolution might have helped clear away some of the surface oil from the dee... many people are frightened of radiation, thinking of it as an invisible, man-made and deadly force, ... a new review on the polyfluoroalkyl substances shows that we know very little about the possible dan... plastic just got an upgrade – by utilizing a method thought to be impossible, researchers have creat... ... candidates for the structures and function of the first proteins have been identified, based on comm... scientists at the université de montréal have used dna to build the world's smallest antenna.... a video explains why some heavy metals are safe to eat - including gold - while others are exception... you wouldn't fare much better than a chicken drumstick if dunked in piranha solution.... ... ... scientists have finally confirmed the existence of calcium silicate perovskite from the earth’s lowe... a sicán gold mask from the tomb of a rich and powerful individual has been found to be painted using... in the 1930s, new zealand farmers began to face an unusual problem: their pants kept exploding, or e... using public data from the epa (environmental protection agency), the researchers analyzed nearly 42... the royal swedish academy of sciences has awarded the 2020 nobel prize in chemistry to benjamin and ... thanks to technical breakthroughs, the secrets in the redacted letters between marie antoinette and ... sign up today to get weekly science coverage direct to your inbox this website uses cookies this website uses cookies to improve user experience. by continuing to use our website you consent to all cookies in accordance with our cookie policy.      environment technology space health and medicine the brain plants and animals physics chemistry policy editor's blog navigation home team about careers subscribe contact submit news contact editorial editorial mission correction policy transparency policy legal terms of use privacy policy cookie policy