plants and animals | iflscience plants and animals watch the first komodo dragons to hatch in australia in this adorable video teenage gorilla "addicted" to smartphones, but are all electronics for animals bad? stranded dolphin dies in texas after people allegedly tried to ride it tardigrades can hitch rides on snails to get around faster 100 million-year-old fairy shrimp fossil suggests it could make babies all on its own diverse life may have existed just 300 million years after earth formed monkeys can sense their own heartbeats, an ability tied to mental health, consciousness and memory in humans vegan diet for dogs may be "the healthiest and least hazardous" choice, study claims you're probably feeding your dog wrong, us study suggests why are humans' butts so big? the institute of human anatomy reveals all the curious spines on this dinousaur’s neck may have actually been a sail new magic mushroom species discovered in australian wilderness horde of sea lions break into fish farm in canada and refuse to leave researchers identified over 5,500 new viruses in the ocean, including a missing link in viral evolution first recorded case of meningitis in a greenland shark uncovered in necropsy genetically modified glowing fish have escaped into brazilian wild creeks do bugs sleep? battle scars of "big john" hint at triceratops fight clubs mushrooms may “talk” to each other and have vocabulary of 50 “words” palaeontologists rejoice as "prehistoric planet" presents a realistic view of the cretaceous popular stories week in science the australian reptile park recently announced that they have welcomed three komodo dragons in a fir... a teenage gorilla is being distracted by zoo-goers phones image credit: denis kabanov/shutterstock.... a dolphin that live stranded on a beach died on the texas gulf coast after a group of people pushed ... tardigrades may be able to ride on the backs of snails in order to relocate, yet those that get cove... an extinct species of fairy shrimp has been retrieved from australia's koonwarra fossil bed and rese... the presence of biological structures within an ancient piece of seafloor sediment pushes back the e... rhesus monkeys can sense their own hearts beating in a first-of-its-kind animal model of interocepti... would you feed your dog vegan food? a new study claims that "nutritionally sound vegan diets" may be... as humans, we love our dogs. and yet, according to new research, barely any of us know how to feed o... the institute of human anatomy explain why humans' butts are so big with the aid of a cadaver.... new research on the detailed properties of amargasaurus' neck and back spines suggests the animal sp... deep in the australian wilderness, there lies a new species of magic mushroom — scientists just aren... a few weeks ago, a horde of nearly two dozen sea lions managed to break into an industrial salmon fa... there are even more types of viruses in the ocean than researchers once thought.... a necropsy of a stranded animal is believed to be the first record of meningitis in a greenland shar... transgenic luminous fish have become popular in aquariums and some have escaped into brazilian creek... dog bugs sleep? the simple answer is yes, but not all bug sleep looks the same.... injuries sustained to big john the triceratops's collar may have been the result of a fight with ano... fungi communicate with each other through the mycelium network using electrical pulses which can for... apple tv+ brings together the knowledge, skills and narratives of modern day scientists, palaeo arti... sign up today to get weekly science coverage direct to your inbox this website uses cookies this website uses cookies to improve user experience. by continuing to use our website you consent to all cookies in accordance with our cookie policy.      environment technology space health and medicine the brain plants and animals physics chemistry policy editor's blog navigation home team about careers subscribe contact submit news contact editorial editorial mission correction policy transparency policy legal terms of use privacy policy cookie policy