java software | oracle india oracle java oracle developer live: java 18 launch continuous innovation from the leaders of java java oracle java customer success situation issue solution outcome oracle java reviews the arrival of java 17 resources get started watch our webcast series protect your java investment buy java now contact sales your search did not match any results. we suggest you try the following to help find what you're looking for: java is the #1 programming language and development platform. it reduces costs, shortens development timeframes, drives innovation, and improves application services. with millions of developers running more than 51 billion java virtual machines worldwide, java continues to be the development platform of choice for enterprises and developers.  java has remained the top development platform choice for organizations looking to tackle today’s business needs. watch this on-demand webcast to learn more about how teams are recognizing java as the best choice for security and their cloud development needs. discover, monitor, and manage your java environment with this powerful new oracle cloud service. 451 research expert insights on regulatory compliance in it projects and how oracle java helps enterprises strengthen security and stability. oracle developer live—java innovations will highlight the new changes coming in the march 22 release of java 18. oracle continues to innovate on the java platform, keeping java vibrant and relevant. join the live virtual event on tuesday, march 22 (americas) and thursday, march 24 (europe, middle east, africa, japan, and asia pacific). now your java se subscription includes high-performance runtime support with graalvm enterprise—at no additional cost. oracle supports millions of members globally with one of the largest communities and ecosystems. by encouraging, funding, and amplifying community participation, the java platform stays modern and vibrant. idc recently examined the history and future for java and related technologies including graalvm. it confirms that java is the most widely used language in the industry today. java is more powerful and relevant today than ever before. read the results of the vdc research study on the leading business and technical trends in software development. the global survey determined that java continues to be the #1 programming language. the world’s most popular modern development platform, java se reduces costs, shortens development time, drives innovation, and improves application services as the programming language of choice for enterprise applications. protect your java investment with oracle java se subscription, which now includes graalvm enterprise and java management service for free. take advantage of the high-performance jdk with advanced optimizations that improve java application performance and microservices deployment—on-premises and in the cloud. together, the two technologies add value for cloud native deployments with native image and multilanguage support. oracle weblogic server offers a robust, mature, and scalable implementation of oracle java enterprise edition (ee) and jakarta ee to run enterprise java applications in the cloud or on-premises. java card enables secure elements, such as smart cards and other tamper-resistant security chips, to host applications based on java technology. store and update multiple applications on a single, resource-constrained device. oracle verrazzano enterprise container platform is a general-purpose container platform that developers and devops engineers can use to deploy, secure, and manage container workloads, including microservices and traditional applications. verrazzano is built from a familiar collection of open source components and supports kubernetes clusters running on-premises or in the cloud. “one of our largest customers was facing performance and memory issues after upgrading their system. there was huge pressure from the customer at all levels to resolve the issue as soon as possible. once the java sustaining engineering team got involved, collaborating with oracle support, they were able to pinpoint what was causing the issue and what changes to make in order to resolve the issue. this solution was provided very quickly, and we received kudos from the end user’s executives as to the speed and efficacy of the solution. we greatly appreciate the efforts of the java sustaining engineering team and oracle customer support.” takashi hashizume, senior manager, ai platform division, nec corporation "oracle java se subscription's multilingual support team is very experienced and readily available to provide instant and parallel support helping our developers to build their projects more timely and easily with no hassles." —mohammad iqbal khan, project manager "instead of wasting time and money, we have been able to reduce overall costs by managing our java estate with oracle java se subscription. this gives us a huge cost saving opportunity that significantly reduces our it opex bills." —fortune nwaiwu, business analyst "for our professional customers, where reliability is a top priority, the small fee of oracle jave se subscription is much more valuable than the many free platforms available for the returned value. we use it for many deployments, mostly for high-value solutions, where every small detail matters." —balázs kiss, software developer "the technical support oracle provides is highly efficient and of very good quality. their staff is trained and has the necessary experience to solve or guide in the resolution of problems raised." —moris mendez, ing. de sistemas informaticos oracle is proud to announce the general availability of java 17, the eighth feature release and next long-term support release, which are part of java’s six-month release cadence. this predictable release schedule offers a steady stream of innovations and allows developers to manage the adoption of new features more easily. get the details on the current—and previous—releases of java se. java se helps you develop and deploy java applications on desktops and servers. java offers the rich user interface, performance, versatility, portability, and security that today's applications require. constellation research's holger mueller has a candid conversation with oracle vp of global marketing for java and graalvm, manish gupta about the history and future of java on its 25th anniversary. gupta also explains why oracle java se subscription offers even more important benefits for modern businesses today. monthly webcasts bring you news from the experts. bring questions to the live events or catch the on-demand replays. and check out oracle university's java learning solutions to help build skills and validate expertise. build, test, and deploy applications on oracle cloud for free. hear from the experts behind java se in live and on-demand webcasts. manage java se installations, updates, and upgrades across your enterprise more cost effectively. discover the advantages of a java license and support from the java experts who wrote the code. talk to a java team member about the advantages of an oracle java se subscription. click to view our accessibility policy skip to content check the spelling of your keyword search. use synonyms for the keyword you typed, for example, try “application” instead of “software.” start a new search. sign-in create an account help sign out oracle india oracle java se subscription oracle jdk oracle openjdk oracle java se platform advanced optimizing just-in-time compiler ahead-of-time compiler (compile java native executables) seamless interoperability for polyglot applications built on enterprise-class oracle java se 24/7 oracle premiere support (my oracle support) oracle weblogic server oracle coherence oracle weblogic server for oracle cloud infrastructure helidon interoperable secure execution environment multiapplication, multitenant extensible and updatable faster applications creation existing custom application estate modernization cloud benefits without vendor lock-in a complete container platform with easy installation and lifecycle management enhanced value for both weblogic server and oracle coherence customers a unified, open source, devops-friendly environment that uses familiar and vendor-neutral tools curated, opinionated container stack that simplifies platform setup polyglot application management situation “one of our largest customers was facing performance and memory issues after upgrading their system. issue there was huge pressure from the customer at all levels to resolve the issue as soon as possible. solution once the java sustaining engineering team got involved, collaborating with oracle support, they were able to pinpoint what was causing the issue and what changes to make in order to resolve the issue. outcome this solution was provided very quickly, and we received kudos from the end user’s executives as to the speed and efficacy of the solution. we greatly appreciate the efforts of the java sustaining engineering team and oracle customer support.” takashi hashizume, senior manager, ai platform division, nec corporation view java webcasts view graalvm webcasts develop your java skills get java certified java learning subscription free java explorer program for novice coders constellation research on java and the java community (3:56) report: the next decade of java analyst report: java turns 25 (pdf) press release: oracle announces java 16 press release: oracle keeps driving developer productivity with new java release oracle jdk oracle openjdk java channel on youtube java magazine follow us on twitter @java follow openjdk on twitter @openjdk a view into the making of the java platform show your java colors the history of duke, the java mascot careers developers investors partners startups students and educators analyst reports gartner mq for erp cloud corporate responsibility diversity and inclusion security practices what is cloud computing? what is crm? what is docker? what is kubernetes? what is python? what is saas? try oracle cloud free tier oracle arm processors oracle and premier league oracle red bull racing employee experience platform oracle support rewards sales: +91 80 67862950 how can we help? subscribe to emails events news blogs country/region © 2022 oracle sitemap terms of use and privacy  ad choices careers facebook twitter linkedin youtube