nature  are new omicron subvariants a threat? here's how scientists are keeping watch featured content how shanghai’s scientists are coping amid harsh covid lockdown record-breaking simulation hints at how climate shaped human migration realization of paris agreement pledges may limit warming just below 2 °c daily briefing: cave-dwelling fish have regional accents advertisement news & comment are new omicron subvariants a threat? here's how scientists are keeping watch how shanghai’s scientists are coping amid harsh covid lockdown women are under-represented in economics globally what's next for alphafold and the ai protein-folding revolution global science must stand up for iran’s imprisoned scholars record-breaking simulation hints at how climate shaped human migration university culture wars over race theory recall 1920s fight to teach evolution latest reviews & analysis mental replays enable flexible navigation net-zero commitments could limit warming to below 2 °c a detector that can learn the fingerprint of light mutational clocks tick differently across species self-activated adhesion receptor proteins visualized a lengthy look at climate and its role in hominin evolution brain-inspired computing needs a master plan from the archive: tutankhanum’s tomb, and a floating fish nest from bermuda insights from orangutans into the evolution of tool use latest research articles a solid-state electrolysis process for upcycling aluminium scrap tethered peptide activation mechanism of the adhesion gpcrs adgrg2 and adgrg4 a dusty compact object bridging galaxies and quasars at cosmic dawn environmental factors shaping the gut microbiome in a dutch population structural basis for the tethered peptide activation of adhesion gpcrs collections robotics and artificial intelligence trending - altmetric realization of paris agreement pledges may limit warming just below 2 °c net-zero commitments could limit warming to below 2 °c somatic mutation rates scale with lifespan across mammals a dusty compact object bridging galaxies and quasars at cosmic dawn  events jobs explore content about the journal publish with us search quick links nature.com sitemap discover content publishing policies author & researcher services libraries & institutions advertising & partnerships career development regional websites legal & privacy thank you for visiting nature.com. you are using a browser version with limited support for css. to obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in internet explorer). in the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and javascript. advertisement in south africa, a network of researchers are studying whether new lineages ba.4 and ba.5 escape immunity from covid-19 vaccines and prior infections. from laps of the apartment to fears for students who desperately need data, four researchers speak about their lockdown experience. model suggests that a shift in weather patterns in southern africa might have contributed to the rise of homo sapiens. if all new and updated national climate change mitigation pledges stemming from the paris agreement are implemented in full and on time, then 21st-century warming could be limited to just below 2 degrees celsius. groups of blind mexican fish that communicate using clicks appear to be developing cave-specific accents. plus, the impact of cop26 pledges, and how machine learning is helping mathematicians. in south africa, a network of researchers are studying whether new lineages ba.4 and ba.5 escape immunity from covid-19 vaccines and prior infections. while rats pause to eat or rest during navigation tasks, neuronal sequences in the brain are replaying routes around moving obstacles, allowing the animals to reach their goals even in changing environments. analysis of climate pledges by nations at the cop26 meeting indicates that such commitments could ensure that global warming does not exceed 2 ºc before 2100 — but only if backed up by short-term policies. the polarization, wavelength and power of a light wave can be simultaneously identified by a compact device made from twisted layers of carbon atoms — with a little help from an artificial neural network. throughout life, cells accrue mutations. it now emerges that longer-lived animals acquire mutations at a slower rate than do short-lived species, potentially explaining why cancer risk does not increase with lifespan. the inner workings of a family of proteins, known as adhesion g-protein-coupled receptors, have finally been visualized at high resolution — revealing the structural basis of their self-activation mechanism. nature is a transformative journal; authors can publish using the traditional publishing route or via immediate gold open access. our open access option complies with funder and institutional requirements. cryo-electron microscopy structures of three adhesion g protein-coupled receptors (agpcrs) complexes provide insight into the tethered activation mechanism of agpcrs and show the potential for rational design of agonists. an unusual ultraviolet compact object associated with a dusty starburst has been observed at a redshift of about 7.2, with a luminosity that falls between that of quasars and galaxies, possibly in transition between the two.  a study in which gut microbiomes of 8,208 individuals from 2,756 families were characterized and correlated to 241 host and environmental factors defines microbiome patterns shared across diverse diseases and shows that the microbiome is shaped largely by environment and cohabitation. adhesion gpcrs involved in cell and matrix interactions signal through a distinct self-cleavage, self-activation mechanism. 05 september 2022 – 08 september 2022 embl advanced training centre 16 october 2022 – 21 october 2022 embl advanced training centre 05 october 2022 – 08 october 2022 embl advanced training centre 08 june 2022 – 11 june 2022 embl advanced training centre 13 september 2022 – 16 september 2022 embl advanced training centre howard hughes medical institute (hhmi) princeton, united states max planck institute of immunobiology and epigenetics (mpi-ie) freiburg, germany the children's hospital of philadelphia (chop) philadelphia, united states the children's hospital of philadelphia (chop) philadelphia, united states flanders institute for biotechnology (vib) ghent, belgium sign up for the nature briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily. advanced search top headline image: credit: stefan els/stellenbosch university issue cover: cover image: k. krause/nature nature (nature) issn 1476-4687 (online) issn 0028-0836 (print) © 2022 springer nature limited view all journals search my account login explore content about the journal publish with us sign up for alerts rss feed how shanghai’s scientists are coping amid harsh covid lockdown from laps of the apartment to fears for students who desperately need data, four researchers speak about their lockdown experience. yvaine ye news 15 apr 2022 yvaine ye record-breaking simulation hints at how climate shaped human migration model suggests that a shift in weather patterns in southern africa might have contributed to the rise of homo sapiens. freda kreier news 13 apr 2022 freda kreier realization of paris agreement pledges may limit warming just below 2 °c if all new and updated national climate change mitigation pledges stemming from the paris agreement are implemented in full and on time, then 21st-century warming could be limited to just below 2 degrees celsius. malte meinshausen jared lewis bernd hackmann article 13 apr 2022 malte meinshausen jared lewis bernd hackmann daily briefing: cave-dwelling fish have regional accents groups of blind mexican fish that communicate using clicks appear to be developing cave-specific accents. plus, the impact of cop26 pledges, and how machine learning is helping mathematicians. emma stoye nature briefing 14 apr 2022 emma stoye contents subscribe current issue 14 apr 2022 contents subscribe are new omicron subvariants a threat? here's how scientists are keeping watch in south africa, a network of researchers are studying whether new lineages ba.4 and ba.5 escape immunity from covid-19 vaccines and prior infections. amy maxmen news 15 apr 2022 amy maxmen how shanghai’s scientists are coping amid harsh covid lockdown yvaine ye news 15 apr 2022 yvaine ye women are under-represented in economics globally brittney j. miller news 14 apr 2022 brittney j. miller what's next for alphafold and the ai protein-folding revolution ewen callaway news feature 13 apr 2022 ewen callaway global science must stand up for iran’s imprisoned scholars editorial 13 apr 2022 record-breaking simulation hints at how climate shaped human migration freda kreier news 13 apr 2022 freda kreier university culture wars over race theory recall 1920s fight to teach evolution adam laats world view 12 apr 2022 adam laats mental replays enable flexible navigation while rats pause to eat or rest during navigation tasks, neuronal sequences in the brain are replaying routes around moving obstacles, allowing the animals to reach their goals even in changing environments. jérôme epsztein news & views 14 apr 2022 net-zero commitments could limit warming to below 2 °c analysis of climate pledges by nations at the cop26 meeting indicates that such commitments could ensure that global warming does not exceed 2 ºc before 2100 — but only if backed up by short-term policies. zeke hausfather frances c. moore news & views 13 apr 2022 a detector that can learn the fingerprint of light the polarization, wavelength and power of a light wave can be simultaneously identified by a compact device made from twisted layers of carbon atoms — with a little help from an artificial neural network. justin c. w. song yidong chong news & views 13 apr 2022 mutational clocks tick differently across species throughout life, cells accrue mutations. it now emerges that longer-lived animals acquire mutations at a slower rate than do short-lived species, potentially explaining why cancer risk does not increase with lifespan. alexander n. gorelick kamila naxerova news & views 13 apr 2022 self-activated adhesion receptor proteins visualized the inner workings of a family of proteins, known as adhesion g-protein-coupled receptors, have finally been visualized at high resolution — revealing the structural basis of their self-activation mechanism. antony a. boucard news & views 13 apr 2022 mental replays enable flexible navigation while rats pause to eat or rest during navigation tasks, neuronal sequences in the brain are replaying routes around moving obstacles, allowing the animals to reach their goals even in changing environments. jérôme epsztein news & views 14 apr 2022 jérôme epsztein net-zero commitments could limit warming to below 2 °c analysis of climate pledges by nations at the cop26 meeting indicates that such commitments could ensure that global warming does not exceed 2 ºc before 2100 — but only if backed up by short-term policies. zeke hausfather frances c. moore news & views 13 apr 2022 zeke hausfather frances c. moore a detector that can learn the fingerprint of light the polarization, wavelength and power of a light wave can be simultaneously identified by a compact device made from twisted layers of carbon atoms — with a little help from an artificial neural network. justin c. w. song yidong chong news & views 13 apr 2022 justin c. w. song yidong chong mutational clocks tick differently across species throughout life, cells accrue mutations. it now emerges that longer-lived animals acquire mutations at a slower rate than do short-lived species, potentially explaining why cancer risk does not increase with lifespan. alexander n. gorelick kamila naxerova news & views 13 apr 2022 alexander n. gorelick kamila naxerova self-activated adhesion receptor proteins visualized the inner workings of a family of proteins, known as adhesion g-protein-coupled receptors, have finally been visualized at high resolution — revealing the structural basis of their self-activation mechanism. antony a. boucard news & views 13 apr 2022 antony a. boucard a lengthy look at climate and its role in hominin evolution michael d. petraglia news & views 13 apr 2022 brain-inspired computing needs a master plan a. mehonic a. j. kenyon perspective 13 apr 2022 from the archive: tutankhanum’s tomb, and a floating fish nest from bermuda news & views 12 apr 2022 insights from orangutans into the evolution of tool use michael haslam news & views 12 apr 2022 a lengthy look at climate and its role in hominin evolution michael d. petraglia news & views 13 apr 2022 michael d. petraglia brain-inspired computing needs a master plan a. mehonic a. j. kenyon perspective 13 apr 2022 a. mehonic a. j. kenyon from the archive: tutankhanum’s tomb, and a floating fish nest from bermuda news & views 12 apr 2022 insights from orangutans into the evolution of tool use michael haslam news & views 12 apr 2022 michael haslam a solid-state electrolysis process for upcycling aluminium scrap xin lu zhengyang zhang tetsuya nagasaka article 13 apr 2022 xin lu zhengyang zhang tetsuya nagasaka tethered peptide activation mechanism of the adhesion gpcrs adgrg2 and adgrg4 cryo-electron microscopy structures of three adhesion g protein-coupled receptors (agpcrs) complexes provide insight into the tethered activation mechanism of agpcrs and show the potential for rational design of agonists. peng xiao shengchao guo xiao yu article 13 apr 2022 peng xiao shengchao guo xiao yu a dusty compact object bridging galaxies and quasars at cosmic dawn an unusual ultraviolet compact object associated with a dusty starburst has been observed at a redshift of about 7.2, with a luminosity that falls between that of quasars and galaxies, possibly in transition between the two.  s. fujimoto g. b. brammer p. a. oesch article 13 apr 2022 s. fujimoto g. b. brammer p. a. oesch environmental factors shaping the gut microbiome in a dutch population a study in which gut microbiomes of 8,208 individuals from 2,756 families were characterized and correlated to 241 host and environmental factors defines microbiome patterns shared across diverse diseases and shows that the microbiome is shaped largely by environment and cohabitation. r. gacesa a. kurilshikov r. k. weersma article 13 apr 2022 r. gacesa a. kurilshikov r. k. weersma structural basis for the tethered peptide activation of adhesion gpcrs adhesion gpcrs involved in cell and matrix interactions signal through a distinct self-cleavage, self-activation mechanism. yu-qi ping peng xiao jin-peng sun article 13 apr 2022 yu-qi ping peng xiao jin-peng sun realization of paris agreement pledges may limit warming just below 2 °c net-zero commitments could limit warming to below 2 °c somatic mutation rates scale with lifespan across mammals a dusty compact object bridging galaxies and quasars at cosmic dawn embo workshop: chemical biology 2022 05 september 2022 – 08 september 2022 embl advanced training centre embo practical course: metabolite and species dynamics in microbial communities 16 october 2022 – 21 october 2022 embl advanced training centre embo workshop: molecular mechanisms in evolution and ecology 05 october 2022 – 08 october 2022 embl advanced training centre embo | embl symposium: microtubules: from atoms to complex systems 08 june 2022 – 11 june 2022 embl advanced training centre embo | embl symposium: reconstructing the human past: using ancient and modern genomics 13 september 2022 – 16 september 2022 embl advanced training centre senior research specialist (ii/iii) - brangwynne lab howard hughes medical institute (hhmi) princeton, united states bioinformatician (m/f/div) in immunogenetics max planck institute of immunobiology and epigenetics (mpi-ie) freiburg, germany assistant professor of pediatrics the children's hospital of philadelphia (chop) philadelphia, united states associate and full professor of pediatrics the children's hospital of philadelphia (chop) philadelphia, united states post-doc in multiplex genome engineering of the maize yield related genes flanders institute for biotechnology (vib) ghent, belgium research articles news opinion research analysis careers books & culture podcasts videos current issue browse issues collections subjects follow us on facebook follow us on twitter subscribe sign up for alerts rss feed journal staff about the editors journal information our publishing models editorial values statement journal metrics awards contact editorial policies history of nature send a news tip for authors for referees submit manuscript explore articles by subject find a job guide to authors editorial policies about us press releases press office contact us    journals a-z articles by subject nano protocol exchange nature index nature portfolio policies open access reprints & permissions research data language editing scientific editing nature masterclasses nature research academies research solutions librarian service & tools librarian portal open research recommend to library advertising partnerships & services media kits branded content nature careers nature conferences nature events nature africa nature china nature india nature italy nature japan nature korea nature middle east privacy policy use of cookies manage cookies/do not sell my data legal notice accessibility statement terms & conditions california privacy statement