science | aaas a classification system for macrophage activation the fascinating world of biogenic crystals earliest evidence of mayan calendar dates to 300 bce teleoperated robot facilitates endovascular neurosurgery bifidobacterium infantis improves severe acute malnourishment in infants latest news first release structure of the human inner kinetochore bound to a centromeric cenp-a nucleosome dynamics of ctcf- and cohesin-mediated chromatin looping revealed by live-cell imaging androgen conspires with the cd8+ t cell exhaustion program and contributes to sex bias in cancer multivalent designed proteins neutralize sars-cov-2 variants of concern and confer protection against infection in mice population-level implications of the israeli booster campaign to curtail covid-19 resurgence a gamma-ray pulsar timing array constrains the nanohertz gravitational wave background sars-cov-2 ba.1 variant is neutralized by vaccine booster-elicited serum, but evades most convalescent serum and therapeutic antibodies structures of tetrahymena’s respiratory chain reveal the diversity of eukaryotic core metabolism a modified vaccinia ankara vaccine expressing spike and nucleocapsid protects rhesus macaques against sars-cov-2 delta infection mrna-1273 and bnt162b2 covid-19 vaccines elicit antibodies with differences in fc-mediated effector functions structural basis for potent antibody neutralization of sars-cov-2 variants including b.1.1.529 understanding t-cell responses to covid-19 is essential for informing public health strategies science science advances science immunology science robotics science signaling science translational medicine custom publishing careers news features commentary redefining inflammatory macrophage phenotypes across stages and tissues by single-cell transcriptomics getting genetic ancestry right for science and society the fascinating world of biogenic crystals fullerenes make copper catalysis better confronting climate injustice strong and fast hydrogel actuators featured videos here’s what we know about covid-19’s impact on the brain watch how finland plans to store uranium waste for 100,000 years watch how a lizard cuts off its own tail to escape danger podcasts how to get published how to get published cover a glass structure about 4.5 mm tall with features as small as 0.25 mm is 3d printed with microscale computed axial lithography followed by high-temperature sintering. the process enables the synthesis of highly transparent and inert glass parts with fine details, which are useful for a variety of applications. see page 308. photo: adam lau/berkeley engineering online cover two mural fragments depicting the 7 deer day-sign (top) and partial hieroglyphic text (bottom) discovered at the mayan excavation site of san bartolo, guatemala. the fragments were among 249 pieces of lime plaster found within the las pinturas pyramid complex. the 7 deer fragment represents a day in the 260-day mayan calendar and the text fragments reveal an established writing tradition. using radiocarbon dating, stuart et al. , date the earliest written evidence of the use of the ancient mayan calendar to about 300 bce. the fragments and painted murals reported, precede other well-known mural chambers in san bartolo by 150 years. online cover mapping melanomas by triangulation analysis. this month’s cover shows a computationally generated spatial graph depicting the localization and spatial relationships between melanoma cells (red nodes) and various stroma and immune cell populations, including antigen-experienced cytotoxic t cells (orange nodes), in a metastatic melanoma tissue section analyzed by cytof imaging mass cytometry. moldoveanu et al. observed that proximity of antigen-experienced cytotoxic t cells to melanoma cells in pretreatment samples was linked to an improved patient response to immune checkpoint inhibitors. a separate study by hoch et al. used multiplex imaging mass cytometry to profile chemokine expression and immune cell infiltrates in metastatic melanoma. online cover special issue on robots in society. robots need to be able to successfully negotiate everyday obstacles, such as doors, in order to find widespread application in society. ito et al. have developed an approach to teach a robot how to autonomously open and pass through a door. first, a teleoperator teaches the robot the mechanics of door opening. then, using computer vision combined with deep predictive learning, the robot is able to autonomously negotiate a variety of doors (inward-opening, outward-opening, and open doors) using what it learned through the teleoperator. this month's cover is a photograph of a robot autonomously opening an outward-opening door. online cover this week, liu et al. report that cell fusion mediated by the sars-cov-2 spike protein causes nuclear damage, activation of the cgas-sting pathway, and production of type i interferon, which suggests how pneumocyte fusion in the lungs of patients with covid-19 may exacerbate disease severity. the image shows coronavirus particles emerging from type ii pneumocytes in a human lung. online cover a treatment for infant malnutrition. shown is a bangladeshi mother holding her infant with severe malnutrition. barratt et al. report a reduction in bifidobacterium infantis in the gut microbiota of malnourished bangladeshi infants. in a clinical study, treatment of these infants with a commercial b. infantis probiotic resulted in improved weight gain and associated decreases in gut inflammation. another b. infantis strain, isolated from a healthy bangladeshi child, showed a greater capacity to use carbohydrates in the diet of malnourished children fed on both breast milk and plant foods. this b. infantis strain might lead to greater clinical efficacy in treating malnutrition. the strength of science and its online journal sites rests with the strengths of its community of authors, who provide cutting-edge research, incisive scientific commentary, and insights on what’s important to the scientific world. to learn more about how to get published in any of our journals, visit our guide for contributors. the strength of science and its online journal sites rests with the strengths of its community of authors, who provide cutting-edge research, incisive scientific commentary, and insights on what’s important to the scientific world. to learn more about how to get published in any of our journals, visit our guide for contributors. © 2022 american association for the advancement of science. all rights reserved. aaas is a partner of hinari, agora, oare, chorus, clockss, crossref and counter.  news careers commentary journals covid-19   log in become a member covid-19 climate science policy genome editing batteries custom publishing collections videos podcasts blogs visualizations prizes and awards authors & reviewers librarians advertisers about help       terms of service privacy policy accessibility news careers commentary journals covid-19 david e. sanin yan ge et al. jolanta prywer jon cohen david stuart heather hurst et al. yoonho kim emily genevriere et al. michael j. barratt sharika nuzhat et al. editorial 15 april 2022 h. holden thorp volume 376 issue 6590 april 2022 simon d’aquin andras szonyi et al. bridget s. gosis shogo wada et al. laura capolupo irina khven et al. rachel e. mason joseph m. craine et al. volume 8 issue 15 april 2022 madison wynne el-saadi xinli tian et al. chun-yuan chen shan-shan rao et al. nivedita sanwlani chris d. evans et al. wladislaw michailow peter spencer et al. volume 7 issue 70 april 2022 anna e. oja rené a. w. van lier et al. dan moldoveanu leeann ramsay et al. briana g. nixon chun chou et al. efthymia kokkinou ram vinay pandey et al. volume 7 issue 65 april 2022 hiroshi ito kenjiro yamamoto et al. antonio paolillo fabrizio colella et al. yoonho kim emily genevriere et al. fan zhang yiannis demiris volume 15 issue 729 april 2022 xiaoman liu liang wei et al. yee kien chong sarang tartey et al. mariana cooke marcelo g. kazanietz amy e. baek volume 14 issue 640 april 2022 mariana o. diniz anna schurich et al. michael j. barratt sharika nuzhat et al. jia-nan wang fang wang et al. ilena vincenti nicolas page et al. sean sanders, ph.d. , et al. sean sanders, ph.d. , et al. sean sanders, ph.d. , et al. jackie oberst, ph.d. , et al. katie langin mingde zheng alexandria hughes adam ruben alaina g. levine kyra h. kim jon cohen jocelyn kaiser paul voosen jeffrey brainard cathleen o’grady p’ng loke jian-da lin anna c. f. lewis santiago j. molina et al. jolanta prywer edmond gravel eric doris miriam aczel zhen jiang pingan song sarah crespi, elizabeth pennisi sarah crespi, adrian cho sarah crespi, paul voosen sarah crespi, cathleen o’grady sarah crespi, jennifer couzin-frankel       news all news scienceinsider news features subscribe to news from science news from science faq about news from science careers careers articles find jobs employer profiles commentary opinion analysis blogs journals science science advances science immunology science robotics science signaling science translational medicine science partner journals authors & reviewers information for authors information for reviewers librarians manage your institutional subscription library admin portal request a quote librarian faqs advertisers advertising kits custom publishing info post a job related sites aaas.org aaas communities eurekalert! science in the classroom about us leadership work at aaas prizes and awards help faqs access and subscriptions order a single issue reprints and permissions contact us       terms of service privacy policy accessibility