vpn news and reviews, privacy and anonymity - vpnoverview.com extensive research on vpns, online privacy, security, and internet freedom latest privacy & security news our most popular articles best vpn providers of 2022 our sections vpn vpn privacy privacy internet safety internet safety unblock unblock vpn privacy internet safety unblock social virtual reality worlds like the metaverse may pose security risks, particularly for children, according to a cbs investigative report. cbs spoke to meta platforms inc.,... social virtual reality worlds like the metaverse may pose security risks, particularly for... apt groups are using cyber tools to target critical industrial ics/scada systems, a new alert by the u.s.'s cisa agency states. high-profile threat actors are capable of gaining... apt groups are using cyber tools to target critical industrial ics/scada systems, a new alert by... cybersecurity researchers have found a new malware distribution campaign against banks in africa. the campaign uses phishing emails and fake websites to lure bank employees into... cybersecurity researchers have found a new malware distribution campaign against banks in africa.... the "rarible" nft marketplace, among the largest active nft marketplaces out there, narrowly avoided a major catastrophe that could have led to the takeover of user accounts and... the "rarible" nft marketplace, among the largest active nft marketplaces out there, narrowly... apple has taken many measures to improve the privacy and security of the iphone over the years. since the introduction of the ios 14.5, apps now request permission from users... apple has taken many measures to improve the privacy and security of the iphone over the years.... although nigeria is africa's largest economy, its internet freedom landscape leaves much to be desired, making a vpn a must-have. in june 2021, the nigerian government banned... although nigeria is africa's largest economy, its internet freedom landscape leaves much to be... no-logging has become a requisite for the vpn industry as customers demand transparency from their cybersecurity products. as such, protonvpn is the latest to pass a stringent... no-logging has become a requisite for the vpn industry as customers demand transparency from their... court documents unsealed for the first time have revealed how telecom giant t-mobile us inc. dealt with 2021's infamous data breach affecting over 50 million of its customers. the... court documents unsealed for the first time have revealed how telecom giant t-mobile us inc. dealt... more and more people have heard about vpns or use one already. on the page below you can find out what a vpn is, how it works and what advantages and possibilities a vpn... more and more people have heard about vpns or use one already. on the page below you can find... with a virtual private network (vpn), you can use the internet more anonymously and securely by means of an encrypted connection. most vpn providers require a monthly fee if... with a virtual private network (vpn), you can use the internet more anonymously and securely by... many of your online actions are not as private as you might think. these days, countless parties attempt to follow our online behavior as closely as they can. our internet... many of your online actions are not as private as you might think. these days, countless... more and more people have heard about vpns or use one already. on the page below you can find out what a vpn is, how it works and what advantages and possibilities a vpn... more and more people have heard about vpns or use one already. on the page below you can find... with a virtual private network (vpn), you can use the internet more anonymously and securely by means of an encrypted connection. most vpn providers require a monthly fee if... with a virtual private network (vpn), you can use the internet more anonymously and securely by... many of your online actions are not as private as you might think. these days, countless parties attempt to follow our online behavior as closely as they can. our internet... many of your online actions are not as private as you might think. these days, countless... we all have the right to privacy and the protection of our personal data. that was the fundamental thought on which we built our website. our site contains information on vpns, online privacy, security, and responsible internet use. with a small dedicated team of professionals we strive to post current and high-quality content on our platform.  a vpn is the ideal tool to improve your online privacy and security. in our vpn section you can find information on how a vpn works and how you can install a vpn on all your devices. moreover, we’ve written extensive reviews and articles that feature the best vpns on the market.   in our privacy section you can read all about how you can browse the web anonymously. we also give you helpful tips on how to manage your privacy settings on different apps, devices, and social media platforms. last but not least we have information on how you can protect your privacy when downloading files from the internet.   here you will find all the important information you need to stay safe online. we explain what malware and cybercrime is and how you can protect yourself against these threats. furthermore, you can read about how to safely store files in the cloud and create really secure backups.   sadly, the internet isn’t freely accessible to everyone. certain websites, apps, or social media platforms don’t work because of your location or the legislation in your country. for example, normally you can’t watch the american netflix content outside of the us. in this section you can read all about geo-blocking and online censorship. we also explain what methods people use to bypass internet censorship.  take a look at our overview of the most trustworthy, fast, and safe vpn services. extensively tested by our experts. vpn best vpn vpn info vpn setup vpn trials vpn reviews best vpn vpn info vpn setup vpn trials vpn reviews privacy anonymous browsing devices downloading finance social media apps laws and regulations anonymous browsing devices downloading finance social media apps laws and regulations security antivirus password managers cybercrime malware secure browsing cloud & backups business kids online antivirus password managers cybercrime malware secure browsing cloud & backups business kids online unblock censorship streaming sports save money censorship streaming sports save money news top 5 vpns best vpns vpn reviews vpn info vpn setup cybersecurity experts weigh in on the metaverse apt cyber tools are targeting energy sector, among others african banks face constant remcosrat malware campaigns privacy internet safety unblock about us contact glossary disclaimer   english deutsch français norsk bokmål español svenska italiano português indonesia deutsch français norsk bokmål español svenska italiano português indonesia   english deutsch français norsk bokmål español svenska italiano português indonesia deutsch français norsk bokmål español svenska italiano português indonesia english deutsch français norsk bokmål español svenska italiano português indonesia deutsch français norsk bokmål español svenska italiano português indonesia   the best vpn discounts, coupons and deals vpn best vpn vpn info vpn setup vpn trials vpn reviews best vpn vpn info vpn setup vpn trials vpn reviews privacy anonymous browsing devices downloading finance social media apps laws and regulations anonymous browsing devices downloading finance social media apps laws and regulations security antivirus password managers cybercrime malware secure browsing cloud & backups business kids online antivirus password managers cybercrime malware secure browsing cloud & backups business kids online unblock censorship streaming sports save money censorship streaming sports save money news top 5 vpns