mega site of bible information top  you can write to us at bible desk, p.o. box 11106, st petersburg, fl 33733. we want to help. we confess that jesus christ is come in the flesh. it is written, hereby know ye the spirit of god: every spirit that confesseth that jesus christ is come in the flesh is of god‐1 john 4:2.      there is no salvation without repentance and trusting in jesus. after repentance, water baptism by full immersion is a biblical command. beware of any religious teacher in a church, crusade, or on the airwaves that uses psychology, philosophy,or endless talking, but does not use the bible or does not teach repentance followed by water baptism by immersion. infant and sprinkling baptism are satan′s counterfeits. the coronaviruses (“pestilences” in the bible) were predicted. also predicted is the horrible tribulation, including an 8 hour war. (in the bible: russia is magog, and the usa is the land shadowing with wings.) one‐fourth of the world′s population shall die as a result. open your eyes and ears. read and obey the bible. repent and be baptized “every one” of you‐ref mk 16:16, acts 2:38. mk 16:16‐he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. the reason baptism is not repeated in the second part of this verse is because there is no water baptism unless repentance takes place first. any church that does sprinkling baptism is not a scriptural institution. this easy to navigate bible site is among the most complete on the net.      the rapture (which is called the “translation” and “caught up” in the bible) will occur on the jewish feast of trumpets (usually in september). it could happen between now (2022) and the next three years. have you repented and been baptized by full immersion afterwards? do you read and/or hear and obey the bible? few do, and only those few will be raptured. faith only comes from god′s word. do you encourage others to repent? millions will soon be left behind, crying, “lord, lord open to us”‐mt 25:11.      the bible reveals diseases and public unrest shall increase in these latter days. the coronavirus and riots are only the beginning of more hardships that are coming before the rapture (also called the “caught up” or translation). the horrible tribulation and battle of armageddon follow the rapture. bible almanac   bible commentary   bible studies   poem about your life  prayer   prophecy   sermons   sin list   spiritual warfare   statistics tribulation in detail   audio & written bible   guidelines‐reading the bible    israel was destroyed in 70 ad, but the bible stated that one day it would be reborn. nearly 2000 years passed, but then, the miracle happened. israel was reborn on may 14, 1948. this single event was day 1 of what the bible calls the latter days of the end times. the scriptures seem to indicate that a period of up to 80 years in length would follow israel′s rebirth‐ref ps 90:10. when israel declared itself to be a state, the nations around it attacked. israel seemed to be without hope. many were killed, but israel survived. again, in 1967 and 1973, they were attacked. israel′s rebirth began a countdown that will lead to an event called the tribulation. during this countdown, 365 biblical signs of the times should take place. incredibly, one by one, they have come to pass—including an increase in diseases and a lack of good bible teaching in many churches. now there is only two left that we know of.    after all are fulfilled, then the rapture (also called the translation or caught up) is expected for those that follow jesus (the bible). this should be on the jewish “feast of trumpets”‐ref num 10:2—usually september or october; and the time will be at midnight (israeli time)‐mt 25:6. the year could be very soon. many that think they are saved will be left, crying, lord, lord, open to us‐lk 13:25.    attention israel. the tribulation is two 3 ½ year time periods of 1260 days; however, the lord will shorten the first 3 ½ year period. the 6 times the bible refers to part of the tribulation's length—it is always the second part. this is the reason those in israel, that come to trust in christ during the first part of the tribulation, must look for the abomination of desolation (the image of the beast on the temple mount) before they flee-mt 24:15-21; lk 21:20-22; dan 12:11; dan 11:31. they cannot count 1260 days. once the rapture happens, it is expected this site will disappear soon after. please copy this now.    shortly after the rapture, the terrifying tribulation begins—over one‐half of the earth′s population will die from wars, starvation, executions and plagues. after the tribulation, the battle of armageddon will explode. jesus shall return and 1000 years of peace will follow. sadly, many “so-called” christians don't have a clue to what is happening. millions listen to psychology, storytelling, and feel good teaching, but turn a deaf ear to god′s word, repenting, and obeying the bible. the end for most is the lake of fire, not heaven. events called the rapture (or translation, or caught up), then the tribulation, armageddon, and the return of jesus should be soon. the bible warns “you” to be ready‐mt 24:44, but indicates that only the “few” that obey god′s word shall be taken. email/prayer request–drop us a line. your comments and questions are welcome. #32 is this you? for the time has come (which is now) when people will not put up with “sound doctrine”. they choose to listen to those that say what their ears itch to hear. they turn from god′s word and turn to meaningless talk that makes them feel good‐ref 2tim 4:3,4. such will perish. the bible tells you to examine yourself (by god′s word) to see if ye be in the faith or misled teaching. some say, no one can know the day and hour of the rapture. wrong. note god′s word: mt 24:35,36-heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away. but of “that” day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my father only. we cannot know the day and hour the heaven and earth pass away. audio homepage, all people & places in the bible–bible almanac, armageddon, audio bible, bible college, bible studies, blog, christian info, chronological 4 gospels & studies, church info, copyright, cults, denom. info, doctrines, double–minded, fear god, garden tomb–golgotha & video, gospel songs + photos of egypt, jordan, israel, incredible testimony, israeli & jewish info, jesus, jewish feasts explained, judges & kings of israel, kjv bible, narrow way, new testament–audio, new testament commentary, pictures, poem about your life, prayer info, prophecy, rapture, salvation, satan deceives, sermons–audio–text, signs of the times, sin list, spiritual warfare, statistics, testimonies, touring israel, tracts, tribulation, world's biggest skeptic. nothing for sale     non-profit    thousands of pages    tommorows news today    home page part 2  the biggest skeptic in the world? it could have been me to the best of my memory, before i came to the saving grace of jesus christ, i did not think about god at all. i did not read the bible. i did not go to church. i did not think about dying, or heaven or hell. i owned my own business and tried to be a good person. i thought i had succeeded by my own wits. one evening, my wife and i heard documentation that these were the last days before jesus christ would return. not wanting to hear it, i almost walked out. something kept me there, and i listened, but was not convinced. i decided to do some research to find out if the bible was true. indeed, if i could find one contradiction or anything that was not true, then i could disregard it. i thought this would be easy. this led me into much research. i learned nearly one–third of the bible is, directly or indirectly, related to prophecy. i needed to determine when the bible was written. thus, a study of biblical history, translations, and archaeology was necessary. the dead sea scrolls, which had been found in israel, contained old testament prophecies of the coming of jesus. it has been proven that these were written before christ came. thousands of clay tablets and archaeological sites confirmed many accounts in the bible. i took time off and began studying the prophecies. my wife spent much time at the library. she obtained documentation from reference books and various sources, which i would check against the scriptures to see if the prophecies took place. i worked on it day and night. one week went by, and then a month. no stone was left unturned. every prophecy we were able to document proved to be true. i was astonished, but still not convinced. later, people would show me what appeared to be mistakes and contradictions in the bible. turned out, these were not contradictions, but only a lack of research on their part. stubborn, that’s me. even after four months of intensive study, night and day, authenticating prophecy after prophecy, i was still skeptical. i became more determined. it wasn’t possible that the sixty–six books of the bible, written by many people over hundreds of years, would not have some errors. thousands of prophecies, and every one perfect? no, impossible! if i would admit that, then i would also have to admit that god in heaven exists, and that i needed to surrender myself to him. i was not prepared to do that—yet, i wanted to know the truth. more months passed. i still refused to admit the bible was all true. i pushed on. more and more research took place. unknown to me, before i reached this point, my wife had received jesus christ as her lord and savior, but not me. i was just too stubborn. perhaps, my success in the business world was also blinding me. perhaps, it was my refusal to admit i had been wrong all my life. perhaps, it was that i just did not want to repent and change. but then, finally, after thousands of hours, i just gave up and stopped. i had to admit that i was wrong. i became afraid. i understood that i would perish. i knew what i had to do to be born again. i repented and surrendered my life to jesus christ. i got on my knees and prayed. i received him as my only hope of salvation by faith–ref eph 2:8–10. afterward, i was baptized by full immersion. jn 3:16–for god so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. acts 4:12–there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. i may have been the biggest skeptic in the world, but now i know—the bible is true and is the word of god. anyone doing the same research could only come to the same conclusion, if they are honest with themselves. you can repent and call on jesus right now to be your lord and savior. you can pray, “jesus, have mercy on me a sinner.” after, you are commanded to be baptized by full immersion. some mistakenly baptize babies. a baby can’t repent or believe in christ. being buried in the water and coming out into the newness of life is according to god’s word–ref mk 16:16; acts 2:38; ro 6:1–10. in the history of the world, many have spent months or years, even a lifetime, trying to prove the bible is not true. it becomes an obsession for some; yet, no one has ever succeeded. i know, because i was one. some have even resorted to telling lies about the bible, hoping to cause some to turn from god. i know this also, as some have contacted me, but when i checked out what they said, i found they were dishonest. if anyone could prove the bible was not true, it would probably make the headlines of nearly every major media outlet in the world. there are app. 10,385 prophecies in the bible. everyone has come true up to this time—without one single exception. impossible—yet true. the fool hath said in his heart, there is no god–ps 14:1. the “soon” coming climax plus more proof the bible is true through the signs of the times listed in the bible. israel’s rebirth, on may 14, 1948, began “the latter days” of the last days. (people of the world will soon need a copy of what you may be about to read.) it is amazing. nearly all of the final 365 prophecies (or the signs of the times) in the bible that were to occur before the rapture are now in place. in the next few years the rapture is expected. it will be followed by the horrible tribulation. yet most of the world’s population is completely oblivious to what is taking place. most cannot name one of the 365 prophecies. lk 12:54–57–jesus said: when ye see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway ye say, there cometh a shower; and so it is. and when ye see the south wind blow, ye say, there will be heat; and it cometh to pass. ye hypocrites, ye can discern (or understand) the face of the sky and of the earth; but how is it that ye do not discern (or understand) this time? yea, and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right? this message may be called a road sign of warning. some may look at a sign that reads—the bridge is out, and say, “oh, someone is just trying to scare us into taking another road; let’s go on the same way.” they go on and plunge to their death. the sign was meant to warn them of impending danger. god wants “you” to know, when you see these things come to pass (that is, the prophecies (or signs) from the bible that lead to the rapture and tribulation), “know” that the kingdom of god is nigh at hand (or is about to happen) ref–lk 21:31. the bible clearly reveals the following. * will russia and some arab nations invade israel, and the usa become involved? yes. * will there be a one–world economic system or global economy? yes. * will violence, hostility and senseless killings increase in the world? yes, it is happening now, even in schools. * will alternate lifestyles increase, prosper and become accepted? yes, it is happening now. have you noticed weather patterns throughout the world are beginning to change? what is going on? people have said the end was near many times—true. however, did you know that no prophecy of the latter years of the last days had any meaning, until one seemingly impossible event took place? that event was the rebirth of the nation of israel. did you know god’s word indicates a generation would not pass from israel’s rebirth (may 14, 1948) till all be fulfilled (which includes the events of the rapture, tribulation, armageddon, christ’s return, and the elect gathered). the bible gives app. 365 prophecies that would all come together after israel’s rebirth. by israel’s rebirth and the signs, we would know and understand the times we are in. many people have been preaching about the latter years of the end times in churches, on radio, tv, the internet, in books, and magazines. some include billy graham, hal lindsey, john hagee, charles stanley, jimmy swaggart, jack van impe, peter lalonde, tim lahaye, ed hindson, perry stone, and john ankerberg. to those that understand the bible, these things should be understood. to those that will not admit they sin and repent, but despise god’s word, no explanation is possible–ref dan 12:4, 10; mt 24:37, 39. it has been said that it is virtually impossible for anyone to make 11 straight predictions, 2000 years into the future. there is only 1 chance in 8 x 10 to the 63rd power, or 80 with 63 zeros after it that such a thing could be done. if such a set of predictions existed, “it would have to be the word of god.” could you write eleven straight predictions that would take place in the year 4000 ad? include the rebirth of a specific nation and how it would be reborn. include specific nations that would exist and be allied together, and the exact size of a nation’s army. include what the people and church would be like in those days. do eleven straight prophecies and be perfect on every one. the bible not only does this eleven times, but hundreds of times. if this is so, then even the most skeptical person (that is truthful) would have to agree that god does exist, and the bible has to be his word. it is written: knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. for the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of god spake as they were moved by the holy ghost–2 pe 1:20,21. you are to “know.” it is a command. some may say no one can know and understand the times we are in. hear the words of jesus himself. lk 21:31–32–so likewise ye, when “ye see” these things come to pass, “know” ye that the kingdom of god is nigh at hand. verily i say unto you, this generation (the generation that sees israel’s rebirth) shall not pass away, till all be fulfilled–ref mt 24:33; mk 13:29. is there an event that you cannot know the day and hour of? yes. it is heaven and earth passing away (an event that takes place more than 1000 years in the future)—of that event, you cannot know the day and hour, no not the angels of heaven–mt 24:35,36. needful general info: the northern kingdom of israel was destroyed app. 721 bc. the southern kingdom of judah ended about 135 years later–app. 586 bc. since that time, about 14 different peoples have possessed the land of israel. the idea that israel would ever become a nation again seemed impossible. let’s prove the bible is true and also prove that we are nearing the end of the last generation before christ returns. (prophecy number 1). the jewish people would be scattered worldwide; yet the bible predicted that “israel would become a nation” again. it would happen after a long time and at a time the bible calls the “latter days”–ref isa 66:8; mic 5:3; ezek 38:8. against what appeared to be impossible odds, this prophecy was fulfilled on may 14, 1948, after about 2500 years had passed. that’s 1 out of 1. immediately, the combined powers of iraq, lebanon, syria, jordan, and egypt attacked seeking to destroy them. israel had no chance. they had little to defend themselves against even one nation, let alone 5. yet god was with them. they prevailed. prophecy fulfilled. israel’s rebirth was the key sign that began the generation that would witness over 360 prophecies come to pass. as already stated, this generation would end with the events called the rapture, the tribulation, the battle of armageddon, return of christ, and gathering of the elect. that generation should not exceed 70 to 80 years–ref ps 90:10. the bible foretold that most people would not be aware of what the bible said regarding the signs of the times, including the church. it would be like noah’s day, when few understood a flood was coming, and they would die. the bible foretold of mockers that would not be saved–jude18. (prophecy 2). israel shall be brought forth “in one day, at once”–ref isa 66:8. prophecy fulfilled may 14, 1948. on nov. 29, 1947, the general assembly of the u.n. approved a resolution calling for the establishment of a jewish state in palestine. on the morning of may 14, 1948 (the last day of the british mandate), a meeting of the people’s council took place in israel to decide on the name and finalize the declaration. at precisely 4pm, the proclamation ceremony began at the tel aviv museum. the 979 hebrew words of the scroll of independence were read. all stood, and the scroll was adopted. the notorious white paper, issued by the british in 1930, restricting jewish immigration, was declared null and void. the people’s council signed the proclamation. david ben–gurion rapped his gavel, declaring, “the state of israel is established. this meeting is ended.” in one day, at once, exactly as the bible predicted—israel was reborn. president truman was swift in announcing u.s. recognition of israel. it is written: isa 66:8–who has ever heard of such a thing? who has ever seen such things? can a country be born in a day or a nation be brought forth in a moment? yet no sooner is zion in labor than she gives birth to her children. that’s 2 out of 2. (prophecy 3). israel would be (reborn) “out of the nations”–ref ezek 38:8, 12. the “united nations” approved a resolution for a jewish state in palestine. for centuries, israel’s land had been occupied by many nations. in addition, the children of israel have returned to israel from nations all over the world. prophecy fulfilled. that’s 3 out of 3. (prophecy 4). israel must “regain the city of jerusalem”–joel 2:32; isa 28:14; ezek 22:19. this happened in 1967. by israel’s rebirth and a precise line of events that all come together, we would understand the times we are in. we are not setting a precise date, but there is no doubt that we are in the generation in which the rapture will occur. this should be explained after the signs of the times. a person’s life on earth is temporary. everyone will live forever, but will it be with god, or in the lake of fire? that’s 4 out of 4. (prophecy 5). the last christian church age before the rapture would be lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot. spiritually, it would be asleep. god will spew them out. the bible tells of today’s church—you have acquired wealth, but your true condition is wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked, and you don’t know it–rev 3:14–22. little scripture is used anymore that drives a person to their knees in repentance because of sin. jesus and the apostles taught sound doctrine, which included baptism by full immersion following repentance. they also taught prophecy, conforming to christ, denying oneself, fearing god, following christ, forsaking all, hell, obeying god’s word, serving god, sin, the judgments, the lake of fire, the signs of the times, and the revelation. most churchgoers know little of these subjects. they often know more about their preacher, his family, and church functions than about god’s word. some churches are entertainment, socializing, and sports centers. few recognize the miserable, spiritual condition of today’s churches. in nearly every christian church today, the word of god is standing outside knocking on their door, but their door is shut to being corrected and repenting. many bible universities, famous ministers, and television evangelists think this is the best church age ever, because they have vast outreaches; however, what they teach is wretched, when compared with the teachings of christ. that’s 5 out of 5. the bible gives about 119 descriptions of the people of the latter days. these fit the people of today perfectly, but they did not fit those of 50 or 100 years ago. here are some. (prophecy 6). some would depart from the faith and go into devil worship–1 tim 4:1. this is perfect. that’s 6 out of 6. (prophecy 7). people would mock about the latter days of the last days and would not believe–2 pe 3:3; jude 18. are you one of them? that’s 7 out of 7. (prophecy 8). people (or we may say children) would be disobeying their parents–2 tim 3:1,2. many parents can verify this is very true. was it true 50 years ago? not nearly as much. that’s 8 out of 8. (prophecy 9). what we call alternate lifestyles would increase and prosper–lk 17:28,30; gen 19:5; ro 1:24,26,27. as little as 25 years ago, alternate lifestyles were rare. now, it is as common as some of your neighbors. that's 9 out of 9. (prophecy 10). people would be without self–control in sex–2 tim 3:1,2,6; rev 9:21; lk 17:28,30; jude 7. it is rare for newlyweds to both be virgins anymore. reportedly, 75% of all men cheat on their wives, and 65% of wives also cheat. multiple sex partners are common. some just live together in sin. how could the bible have named an exact time (the last church age) “2000 years in the future” and been correct on this? that’s 10 out of 10. (prophecy 11). people would love pleasures more than god–2 tim 3:1,2,4. picnics, football, soccer, or sleep comes first. church?—we can go later, or perhaps not at all. the american motto, “in god we trust,” has become a joke. remember, these were predicted as part of the signs that we were at the time of the end. that's 11 out of 11. we have just reached the point that seemed impossible. there was only one chance in 80 with 63 zeros that anyone could write 11 straight predictions, 2000 years into the future, and be perfect on everyone. if such a set of predictions did exist, it would have to be the word of god. yet, there is more! (prophecy 12). people would be taking drugs–rev 9:21. the greek word for sorceries, in rev 9:21, refers to pharmaceuticals or drugs. many will try most anything to get “a high.” some drugs have now become legal. god’s word is 100% right on every one. that’s 12 out of 12. how could you have any doubts at this point? can you find a movie anymore that does not curse god’s name? does anyone fear god anymore? gum chewing was a problem in schools in the 1940’s. today, it’s stealing, weapons, and drugs. it’s going to get worse. the bible is never wrong. (prophecy 13). there would be weapons that could destroy the world–mk 13:20; rev 6:8; rev 9:18; zech 14:8,12. incredibly, this prophecy was written in the days of swords, spears and arrows. that’s 13 out of 13. it is estimated that the nuclear arsenals of the usa and russia (as of now) could kill every living thing on earth 6 times over. russia and the usa both have bombs that are 2500x more powerful than those used against japan. they have delivery systems that could strike the other in 8 to 15 minutes. consider, 2000 years ago, people thought the earth was flat, yet the bible tells us it is round–ref isa 40:22. people had crazy ideas about what held the earth up, even though the bible says it hangs upon nothing–job 26:7. people were wrong. the bible was right. (prophecy 14). in the latter days, when israel was again a nation, there would be a great military power to its extreme north in the land of magog (which is modern russia)–ezek 38:2–4,8,15,16. moscow is almost directly north of israel. incredible! how could the bible have foretold the location of a nation, facts about its military, and the time period it would happen? russia is one of the two great military powers in the world. that’s 14 out of 14. as already said: lk 24:25–o fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. we are listing only a few of the 365 prophecies that are expected to be fulfilled before the rapture and tribulation happen—363 are now in place. (prophecy 15). there would be a nation to the far east of israel, to the end of the earth. they would have an army of 200 million. how could the bible, 2000 years ago, have foretold the time period and location of a specific nation and the size of its military? it is estimated, at the time this prophecy was given, the world’s population was only about this same figure. china has boasted that they could field an army of this “exact” figure. that’s 15 perfectly fulfilled prophecies in a row. the bible is true. here are two additional ones. (prophecy 16). violence would increase. have you noted the violence now going on in the middle east? women are kidnapped, raped and sold. people are beheaded. violence has jumped all over the world, even in schools. this was not true 35 years ago. that’s 16 out of 16. the time of the end is at hand. how much proof do you need to have? (prophecy 17). a key prophecy. there would be an economic alliance of the nations of the old roman empire. this is a description of the european union today (the eu). it has adopted a one–currency system for many of its nations. it is written, in the days of these kings (these nations, which is now) shall the god of heaven set up a kingdom–dan 2:44. that’s 17 out of 17. we have now “gone past” the point that seemed impossible, which was 11 perfect predictions. the rapture will happen soon. the tribulation will follow. even the biggest skeptic should see the bible is true (if they are honest). god does exist, and the bible is his word, and we have proved it. study the gospel daily, and obey it. god loves you. he really does. mt 16:26–what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? you can cry out to jesus right now by praying, have mercy on me, o lord, thou son of david–mt 15:22. turn from sin to jesus. then be baptized by immersion. when jesus comes to catch away his people, many will realize it is about to happen. however, it will be too late to repent. if you are waiting for the last hour to surrender to christ—that hour is now. what’s next? the rapture followed by the tribulation (why most will be left behind) rapture is a term used to describe the removal from the earth of all that are born–again, as evidenced by their repentance, love, following jesus, and obedience to god’s word. “few fit this description.” the key is devouring god’s word daily and letting it change you. excuses do not lead to heaven. a sinner’s prayer, without repentance and obeying god’s word afterwards, means nothing. what is written? repent and be baptized every one of you–acts 2:38. the rapture ends the church age. the tribulation begins soon after. do not be deceived. the revelation portrays the raptured saints in heaven, before the throne of god, prior to the antichrist coming forth. 1 cor 15:51,52–“we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment in the twinkling of an eye, at the last (that is, the second) trump: for the trumpet shall sound.” 1 thes 4:16,17–“and the dead in christ shall rise first, then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds.” born again christians will be with jesus. all others will face the dreadful tribulation. the number of people that will be raptured will be very small. most that believe they will be raptured will be left behind–ref mt 7:13,14, 21–23; 20:16; 25:8–11. people in some churches never hear the words “rapture” or “the signs of the times.” find a church that does teach these. beware: the scriptures clearly reveal that in these latter days, “many” bible teachers are deceivers, who confess not that jesus christ is come in the flesh. some are famous and have large outreaches on the airwaves. they deceive many with their ideas that are contrary to good, sound bible doctrine. those that listen to them are not aware of them. the bible tells us that this is the age of religious deception, when people will not put up with sound doctrine, but they will gather around themselves teachers that will say what their (worldly and) itching ears desire to hear. if you are one of them, you need to repent. some may wrongly believe the bible teaches no man can know the day and hour of the rapture. this is not correct. it is true, those not ready will not know or understand; however, those watching and ready will know. it is written–1 thes 5:4-but ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief. born again christians can know through the signs of the time. many misread the “day and hour” verse by disregarding the verse right before it. it is written: mt 24:35,36–“heaven and earth shall pass away,” but my words shall not pass away. but of “that” day and hour knoweth no man (the day and hour of the heaven and earth passing away, no man knows), no, not the angels of heaven, but my father only. the scriptures speak of 7 jewish feast days. the feast of trumpets is the next one to be fulfilled. two trumpets are blown—the first one and the last one. this is usually in september. this is the day the rapture is expected to come. it will be within a generation of the rebirth of israel. that generation began may 14, 1948 and could continue to as late as 2028–ref ps 90:10. when one subtracts the tribulation period, one can see clearly that the rapture of god’s people is very close. the hour it will come is at midnight (israeli time)–mt 25:6. as it is written, at midnight there was a cry made. behold the bridegroom cometh. if it would come this year, would you be ready? after the rapture, the spirit of lawlessness will be unleashed. sin, hate, and every kind of evil can be expected to explode as never before throughout the world. (click here for more info on the 7 feasts of israel). “the tribulation” what you may be about to read or hear is true. it has not been watered–down or modified to try and keep your attention. it has not been altered, so it would say what your itching ears might want to hear. an estimated 40,000 hours of bible study & research over 35 years has been invested, including trips to the actual places many events will or have already taken place. only jesus christ, who is come in the flesh, is to be glorified. (for the complete tribulation & armageddon text, which is app. 150 pages, click here) immediately following the rapture, there will be no true, born again christians left on the earth. the ones left will be those that had not repented, or if they did, they turned back. they were not doers of god’s word; yet, many thought they were saved. in some cases, their bibles were rarely read. they never understood about making a covenant with christ by sacrifice–ps 50:5. excuses and unbelief will abide with many that are not taken. they may have sung a song that said, “i surrender all,” but they never did. many may have thought that only saying a prayer would save them, as many famous preachers said. yet their bibles would show this was not correct. immediately following the rapture, the spirit of lawlessness will be let loose. violence worldwide will increase and begin approaching the way it was before the flood. immediately following the rapture, the man of sin (called antichrist, and many other names) comes forth-2 thes 2:6–12. he assumes control of the eu. he will be brilliant, charismatic and have an unusual, almost hypnotic, power of persuasion. he confirms a covenant (or agreement, or treaty) with israel and others, which begins the tribulation–ref dan 9:27. he is the son of satan. god warns israel, in his word, that their agreement with hell would not stand. israel does not heed his warning. immediately following the rapture, 144,000 male, virgin jews are sealed with the seal of the living god on their foreheads. this seal will protect them. twelve thousand are sealed from each of the tribes of israel. none are sealed from the tribe of dan. (those days should be shortened. the lord had shortened those days. he hath shortened the days. he will cut it short. a short work {or a shortened tribulation} will the lord make.) the entire tribulation is a 7 year period of 360 days each, which is also 2520 days, or 84 months of 30 days each. it consists of two equal periods of 3½ years, which is two 42 month periods, or two 1260 day periods. the event that separates them is called the abomination of desolation (which is explained further on). however, the lord may have cut short the first 3½ years–ref mk 13:20; ro 9:28, and others. this will happen for the elect’s sake, which are jews. if the lord had not shortened the days of the tribulation, no flesh (or life) would be saved (or would survive). most jews may not understand this, until certain events happen sooner than expected. few, if any gentiles, may comprehend this now, or later. this is why the elect must look for the abomination to occur, rather than counting 1260 days from the covenant of dan 9:27. this should be explained under tribulation shortened. day one of the tribulation occurs when the antichrist confirms a covenant (or agreement) with israel and others for 7 years. there are no adequate words to describe how bad the tribulation will be. the first part will be terrifying. the second part will be even worse. (russia and its allies attack israel) not long after the rapture, god will bring russia forth against israel. iran and others will come also. russia attacks israel to carry away silver, gold, and food, and to take a great spoil. this indicates they will be hurting for food and finances. are there any signs that this is beginning to happen now? tiny israel, despite its military advances, will have no chance. but, then, god steps in and makes his presence known. he destroys nearly all the invaders in such a way that the world will recognize jesus christ is alive and is protecting israel–ez 38,39. the destruction of the invading armies will start with an earthquake. the invaders will go into a state of confusion and turn their weapons on each other. a plague and sickness will strike them. heavy rains will come. huge hailstones will rain down on them. burning coals of sulfur will also come down. only one–sixth of the russian invaders will be left alive. the birds and wild animals will have a great feast. god will be glorified as a result. those that plunder israel will become plunder for israel. the dead bodies will be buried for seven months. then men will search for more bones. (world war 3) the usa becomes involved, but at what point is unclear. the destruction of the land of russia (or magog) and the usa follows. god will send fire upon both nations. the massive destruction will come from aircraft, missiles, and satellites of the opposing nation. the battle will take 4 hours of the day and 4 hours of the night. thick clouds will cover one–third of the earth. the fiery red horse will have been unleashed. are there any problems developing between the usa and russia right now? is much of the world turning against israel, even though, in 1948, much of the world was “for” israel? if you claim to be born again, but do not love god’s people, the jews, you should examine yourself by god’s word and repent. (results of world war 3) one–fourth of the world’s population will ultimately die. the nearly two billion people that will die will have had no chance to repent, as this happens soon after the rapture. therefore, all perish to hell–ref rev 6:8. hell followed all that died. as a result of the russian–usa exchange, one–third of trees will be burned up. all green grass worldwide will be burned up, as the radio active fallout follows the wind currents. this includes farm crops. one–third of the waters will become wormwood (or poisoned, or radioactive, or bitter). one–third of the sea will become blood. one–third of the creatures in the sea will die—thus, a shortage of fish. one–third of the ships will be destroyed. few ever thought this war would happen. from this point on, much of the usa and russia can be expected to be a radioactive pile of ash. they will no longer be on the world scene. the usa will be as a tree that is reduced to a stump. few are left alive. the dead bodies will become food for the wild animals and birds. the usa has turned their back on god. the preaching has become watered–down. nearly every perverse sin imaginable has become acceptable. thus, god’s judgment will come. how often do you fast unto the lord—perhaps for a week each year? do you ever fast even for a day? do you tithe? god’s people that understand his word do. the bible teaches few go to heaven. did you ever hear a clergy say any deceased person went to hell? some even teach there is a purgatory. it is unbiblical–lk 16:22,23; 2 cor 5:8. (after ww3) a united europe led by the antichrist will reach far and wide. china and the kings of the east will dominate the east. 144,000 male, virgin jews will go forth with the gospel. they should alert the world as to what is happening and lead many to repent and follow christ. however, children will betray their parents to the authorities. wives and husbands will betray each other. hate and coldness will be everywhere, but even more toward those that would dare to believe in christ. false christs and false prophets that do miracles will come forth causing many to be confused and misled. (the jews return to israel) following ww3, jews from around the world that survived will be gathered to their own land of israel, and none will be left behind. then the incredible happens. one–third of israel will become followers of jesus. god refines them. he teaches and corrects them. yet the rest of israel will still walk contrary to god’s ways. massive famines will follow ww3. the price of a day’s food will be a day’s wages, if a person can find it. the black horse of starvation will be released. increased earthquakes, unusual weather patterns, and huge tidal waves (or tsunamis) will continue to increase as birth pangs of a woman. (mystery babylon. the roman catholic church and rome) during the tribulation, a one–world, false religion that god calls mystery, babylon the great, the mother of harlots and abominations of the earth will greatly increase and prosper. none that are involved with this institution will be raptured, including the priests and pope. this church has its roots back to the babylonian cult, which claimed to possess the highest wisdom. before a member could be initiated, he had to “confess” to the priest. the priest then had him in his power. once admitted into this order, men were no longer babylonians, assyrians, or egyptians, but members of a mystical brotherhood over which was placed a pontiff or “high priest,” whose word was law. when attalus died in b.c. 133, he bequeathed the headship of this “babylonian priesthood” to rome. astrology is part of this church. it is headquartered in a small, independent area of rome called the vatican. it has an almost hypnotic hold on many people. it may be said that the heart of this church is seductiveness, deception, manipulation, domination, and control. to many, she is the way to heaven, but, in reality, her people are all bound for hell, not the unbiblical purgatory. on the outside, she looks beautiful; but on the inside, she is an abomination. “jezebel” (rev 2:20) is synonymous with the roman catholic church in the revelation. kings, heads of nations, and important people will become intoxicated with this great harlot during the first part of the tribulation. it may be compared to a spider’s web with honey. once a person is entangled in the web of the whore, with its enticing doctrines, beauty, and splendor, then hell awaits them few ever escape. only repentance and obedience to god’s word can free a person from its clutches. only the truth (god’s word) can set a person free. as satan is transformed into an angel of light (2 cor 11:13–15), even so is this church. the city of rome will become a center of commerce and trade. ships will transport goods all over the world. this includes slaves and young girls. through her, merchants will become rich. greed, money, and power, describe this city. (the tribulation continues—the first part) senseless violence, looting, rioting, destroying, and killing will continue to get worse and worse, as the salt of the earth is gone. brutal killings, such as burning people alive, will not be uncommon during the tribulation. hate will abound. (many killed for their faith during the first part of the tribulation) (many more will be killed during the second part) the bible reveals that there are two groups in heaven that will be martyred. one group should be from the first part of the tribulation–ref rev 6:9–11. these are killed for the word of god and the testimony they held. these were not killed for refusing to worship the image, as it does not yet exist. these are in heaven under the altar saying, “how long?” the other group is from the second part, which is the great tribulation–ref rev 7:9–17. this is a great multitude that loved not their lives unto the death–rev 12:11. they would not take the mark or worship the image. they are from every nation and are clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands, which indicates victory. jesus shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. both groups will come to trust in jesus christ during the tribulation. (more events from the first part of the tribulation) every form of abomination, perversion, and sin will increase. wickedness will be everywhere. transgressors will become completely wicked. witchcrafts (or sorceries), devil worship, fortunetellers, graven images, other gods, even the work of one’s hands will become objects of worship–rev 7:4. alternate lifestyles will be an accepted way of life. others will go after all kinds of flesh. as the days of lot, and of sodom and gomorrah were, so the earth will be. the antichrist will continue to grow in power and authority. all sorts of diseases (or pestilences) will come upon people in various places. all these things will be like birth pangs of a woman, increasing in frequency and intensity. wars and rumors of wars will continue. wild animals will attack people. drugs and drunkenness will be everywhere. during the first part of the tribulation, construction will begin on a new temple on the temple mount in israel. (nearing the end of the first part of the tribulation) there had been no “sacrifices and oblations” in israel since approximately 70 a.d, when they had been cut off by titus. it is written: for the children of israel shall abide many days (or a long time, or many years)…without a sacrifice–hos 3:4. at this time, the sacrifices will begin once again in israel. (the end of the first part of the tribulation is very close. the 144,000) during the first part of the tribulation, 144,000 male, virgin jews will be warning the earth to fear god and give glory to him. many repent. part one of the tribulation draws to a close. the 144,000, which are redeemed (or ransomed) from among men, will be before the throne of god on the heavenly mt. zion. they are the firstfruits unto god and to the lamb. they are without fault before the throne of god. they will have the father’s name written on their foreheads. when a person is in the tribulation and all these horrible things are come upon them, if they turn to the lord their god and obey his voice, god will not forsake them. he will not forget his covenant, for the lord god is merciful. (the unexpected time. more easily understood by the jews, because it is for them that it happens) the events of the second part of the tribulation will not be expected until 1260 days after the confirmation of the covenant that begins the tribulation. however, the antichrist, proclaiming he is god, will come sooner than expected. (war in heaven) there will be a war in heaven. satan and his angels will fight against the archangel michael and his angels. the devil and his angels will be defeated. the devil will be cast down to the earth. one–third of the angels of heaven will also be cast down. there will no longer be any place in heaven for them. not only is life a test for the people of the earth, it is also a test for the angels. will they follow god, or follow satan? satan, which deceiveth the whole world, (the bright, shining star) that had accused the brethren day and night, will fall from heaven. it is written: i beheld satan as lightning fall from heaven. there will be rejoicing in heaven. when the devil sees that he is cast to the earth, he will be furious. satan had thought in his heart that the day would come, when he would exalt his throne above the stars of god. he had thought he would be like the most high. god says: rev 12:12–woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil (the adversary) is come down unto you, having great wrath (or he is very angry), because he knoweth that he hath but a short time (or he knows that his time is short!–jnt). the greatest slaughter of those that follow jesus is about to begin. god had warned israel—when they made an agreement (or covenant) with the antichrist (or with hell)—it would be cancelled. this agreement started the tribulation. he told israel the bed was too short and the covering was too narrow—meaning the agreement was no good–dan 9:26. the only true protection one can truly have, must come from god. (just before 1260 days from the end of the tribulation) things will be happening so fast that the newsmedia may barely be able to keep up. approximately 27 major events are expected to happen in about a two week period. (the two prophets or witnesses) about 4 days plus 1260 days before the end of the tribulation, two witnesses from god appear in jerusalem. they are both jews (or olive trees). the power of god will protect moses and elijah for 1260 days, so they cannot be harmed or killed. any that try to harm them will be killed by fire. they both will have their natural body and will be clothed in sackcloth. they have the power to shut up heaven, so it does not rain, and to bring all kinds of plagues on the earth. (note: the rain being cut off causes the euphrates river to dry up. this enables the kings of the east to cross over it in the latter part of the tribulation, as they come to israel.) (note: whether the rain being shut off is only in israel and the middle east, including the euphrates, is not known. scripture does not seem to indicate the whole world will have no rain.) some wondered if enoch will be one of the two. he was not a jew. at passover, children are taught to expect elijah to come before the dreadful day of the lord (which is armageddon). the two witnesses will speak such things as: the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the lord. also behold, i will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple. they will warn the people against taking the mark and worshipping the image. it is an unforgivable sin. they will preach the gospel of the kingdom—that is, the 1000 year reign of christ. all the world will see that their power is greater than that of the antichrist; yet, most will not heed their warnings. they will turn the heart of the fathers to the children and the children to their fathers. (the antichrist is killed but comes back to life) about the same time as the two witnesses appear, the antichrist (also called the beast) is killed by a wound in the head from a weapon. the world can see it on their handheld devices and the tv. but then the impossible happens. his deadly wound will be healed. as the antichrist comes back to life, a spirit will come up from the bottomless pit to occupy his body. that spirit was once alive, but then dead, and now is alive again in the antichrist. the world is astonished. he declares himself to be god and moves into the rebuilt temple in jerusalem. the daily sacrifice is taken away. they ascribe to him deity. people say such things as, “who is like the beast?” which is the antichrist, and “who is able to make war against him? who is able to kill him?” satan gives his son power, his seat, and great authority. the antichrist will exalt himself above all that is called god, or that is worshipped. he will sit in the temple of god showing himself that he is god. he has no regard for the god of his fathers, which is the god of abraham, isaac, and jacob. he honors the god of forces, which is satan, with gold, silver, precious stones and costly gifts. he glorifies the devil (which is also called the dragon in the scriptures). (the world changes greatly after the antichrist comes back to life) the antichrist is quick to sieze, as strong as a bear, and has the pride of a lion. he will do great miracles and wonders, so that, if it were possible, he could deceive even the very elect of god. his power will be as a result of satan. the world will be persuaded that this is god, and he speaks the truth. he causes craft or deceit to prosper. he has no desire for women. he will change the set times and the laws. the various feast days of the past can be expected to be erased. he will have power over all people and every nation. he will accuse the god of heaven of things that have never been heard. he slanders his name, his tabernacle, and those that dwell in heaven. no person, or ruler on earth, has any power or authority to stand against him. yet his power is not enough to defeat god’s two witnesses until their 1260 days are finished. (the false prophet) a false prophet appears that speaks as satan does, but is pictured as having two horns like a lamb. he is as a messenger of light. he has all the power of the antichrist. he brings glory to the antichrist and causes the earth to worship the antichrist. he does great wonders and miracles. he makes fire come down from the sky as people watch. he deceives the whole world by the miracles he does. he has the spirit of a devil. (the image) he (the false prophet) tells the people to make an image of (or unto) the antichrist, or to honor the antichrist. when it is made, the false prophet has power to give “life or breath” to the image. satan himself will occupy the image. it actually comes to life and speaks. (exactly 1260 days before the end of the tribulation—the abomination of desolation occurs) the image will be set upon a wing of the temple. this is called the abomination of desolation, or the abomination that made it desolate. the temple will be defiled. there is now 3½ years, which is 42 months, or 1260 days till the tribulation ends. the second part is called the “great” tribulation. for then shall be great tribulation (or affliction), such as was not since the beginning of the world (or the creation) to this time, no, nor ever shall be–mt 24:21. as horrible as the first part of the tribulation is, the second part will be far, far worse. (note) six times the revelation gives the length of one half of the tribulation. (it is 1260 days, or 42 months, or 3½ years). however, this always refers to the second part. this will only be understood by a few, until the various events actually happen. (worship the image, or be killed by being beheaded) the image speaks. it causes all that will not worship the image to be killed. in other words, it is satan that will cause those that will not worship satan to be killed. satan had said, in isa 14:14–i will be like the most high. satan had offered jesus all the kingdoms of the world, if he would fall down and worship him–ref mt 4:9. jesus had said in return: mt 4:10–get thee hence, satan: for it is written, thou shalt worship the lord thy god, and him only shalt thou serve. however, the antichrist accepts this offer. he is given all the kingdoms of the world, but it only lasts 42 months. the hatred of satan, his antichrist, and the false prophet against the followers of christ will be without limit. (tribulation shortened) (this was explained previously under those days should be shortened) (note: the events of the second part of the tribulation will not be expected to begin until 1260 days had passed after the confirmation of the covenant, which we have already covered. however, the second part of the tribulation will begin earlier than expected, as the lord will shorten the first part for the elect’s sake. note: this is why the elect have to watch for the “abomination” to take place, and then flee for their lives. they could not count 1260 days from the covenant, and then flee. most jews should understand this, as that day approaches. most gentiles may not. the first part being cut has to do with the elect jews, not the gentiles. let it be stated this way. if satan, the antichrist, and false prophet would have been allowed by god to have the full 2520 days, no flesh should be saved. (the forces of the antichrist immediately go to arrest all the jews that follow christ) “the jews are to flee with no hesitation at all.” the people of judaea (that keep the commandments of god and have the testimony of jesus christ) are told to flee instantly and without hesitation. they are told to do this the instant they see that the image is set on a wing of the temple (which is the abomination of desolation). they will be able to see the abomination as it takes place with their handheld devices. such a thing was unthinkable not long ago. even as the abomination is occuring, the authorities will already be headed to their houses to arrest them. they are to flee fast to the mountains, to a place god will have prepared for them to dwell in safety. it is written: when ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation spoken of by daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place (or standing where it ought not) (whoso readeth let him understand) then let them which be in judaea flee into the mountains. let him which is on the housetop not come down to take anything out of his house. neither let him which is in the field return back to take his clothes. and woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days–mt 24:15–19. what should a mother do? if she goes to get her child, both of them will be caught, tortured, and killed. a father has a thought to get a jacket, so he hesitates and gets caught. the obedient will escape. if a person is caught, the full wrath of satan will be poured out against them, unless they take the mark and worship the image. as the jews that are trusting in jesus flee for their lives with god’s help, satan tries to stop them with a flood, but the earth opens its mouth and swallows the water, and they escape. god will take care of them for the next 3 ½ years. satan is wroth that the elect jews escaped. he goes forth to make war against the rest that did not escape, which keep the commandments of god and have the testimony of jesus christ. the scriptures tell the jews that will flee–mt 24:20–but pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the sabbath day– mt 24:20. this confirms it will not be 1260 days following the covenant, as the season, day, and date should be locked in and could be figured out. the number that shall escape from judaea is unknown. the total number of jews that will be protected will be 1/3rd of israel. it is written: when thou art in tribulation, and all these things are come upon thee, even in the latter days, “if” thou turn to the lord thy god, and shalt be obedient unto his voice; (for the lord thy god is a merciful god;) he will not forsake thee, neither destroy thee, nor forget the covenant of thy fathers which he sware unto them–deut 4:30,31. (take the mark. 666 or cannot buy or sell) the false prophet causes all people to receive a mark, or the name of the antichrist, or the number of his name (which is 666) in or on their right hand or forehead. no one can buy or sell without the mark. without the mark, it will be nearly impossible to survive. a person cannot buy anything, anywhere. they cannot pay their rent, or utilities, or even their taxes. they cannot receive a salary. this mark will be needed to conduct all financial transactions. the world will become a cashless society that is totally under the control of the antichrist. how can a mother get food for her baby? those that follow christ, their faith will be severely tested. the word goes out from an angel. the wrath of god will be upon all that take the mark and worship the antichrist. it is an unforgivable sin. there will be only two choices. these will be?follow the antichrist and survive, or follow christ and then be beheaded. the faith of some will fail under the pressure. how about you? (these will lose their life, but get the victory) following the image being set upon a wing of the temple, people being beheaded should begin, because they will not worship the image. however, those that are beheaded, actually get the victory over the antichrist and over the image. these did not receive the number of the name of the antichrist. these did keep the commandments of god and the faith of jesus. these get the victory by the blood of the lamb, by the word of their testimony, and because they loved not their lives unto death. the instant they are killed, they will be in the presence of god. (power over all the world) power is given to the antichrist by his father, satan, over all kindreds, and tongues and nations. all that dwell on the earth shall worship the antichrist, whose names are not written in the lamb’s book of life. during these last 3½ years (called the great tribulation), world conditions continue to worsen. the antichrist shall be allowed to make war against the saints and the holy people, and will overcome them. the gentiles throughout the world that choose to follow christ will have to hide or flee. as said, survival will be difficult. there will be betrayals in families. authorities can be expected to pretend they follow christ in order to trap others that really do. jerusalem will be trodden down by the gentiles for the last 42 months. the antichrist continues in power for 1260 days and prospers. the people of the world will be under his control, except those whose names are written in the book of life. he blasphemies the god of heaven over, and over but glorifies and honors satan with gifts. there are no bounds regarding the hatred of satan, the antichrist, and false prophet toward god and those that follow christ. the last 1260 days of the tribulation will be filled with many judgments from god against those that follow the antichrist. trees will begin to wilt. the fields will be drying up because of no rain. (babylon is fallen, is fallen) (the whore—that is, the roman catholic church is burned with fire) during the first part of the tribulation, “the great whore” ( the roman catholic church) will grow and prosper as never before. the kings of the earth will go a whoring with her. they will become intoxicated with her fornication (or her hypnotic ceremonies and teachings). but then the antichrist will proclaim himself to be god and move into the newly rebuilt temple. the vatican will be hated by the 10 kings and the antichrist. they will burn her with fire. she competed for the souls of people as did the antichrist. the great harlot will come to a fiery end. her judgment will be from the lord. the antichrist will reign supreme and unhindered. (rome) the city of rome will prosper and become a great financial and trading capital. but it is laiden with sin. during this general time, the city of rome will also be destroyed by fire in one hour. the scriptures list them as two events with each being destroyed for different reasons. (authorities seek the followers of christ. many betrayals) during the second part of the tribulation, the authorities will be looking for people that follow christ. surveillance devices will be everywhere. is this beginning to happen right now? it will be a time of great fear. people betraying people will be common. and ye shall be betrayed both by parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and friends; and some of you shall they cause to be put to death–lk 21:16. it is also written, then shall many…hate one another–mt 24:10. and because iniquity (or wickedness) shall abound (or increase), the love of many (or most) shall wax (or grow) cold–mt 24:12. however, many gentiles, through the mercy of god and his protection, will survive the tribulation—hiding and running for their lives. these will go into the millennium to repopulate the earth. there may be 4 million or more. (falling continues throughout the tribulation) the falling away from the faith will continue throughout the tribulation, as people are confronted with torture and death versus life. it is written, and then shall many be offended (or trapped) (or at that time, many will turn away from the faith)–mt 24:10. yet, during the tribulation, many will also come to faith in jesus christ. (the two witnesses continue) the two witnesses (that is, moses and elijah) continue to cause great problems for the antichrist. no one can stop their miracles or plagues. no one can bring back the rain they stopped. no one can stop the testimony that they are giving. anyone that tries to kill them are, in turn, killed by fire. despite the enormous power the antichrist and false prophet have, they cannot stop the two witnesses until their time is up, which is 1260 days after they appear. they are given power by god to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy. the two witnesses have the power to turn the waters to blood. this was one of the miracles moses did thousands of years ago. they also have the power to strike the earth with whatever plague they desire. moses did such miracles thousands of years ago. elijah also had powers to smite the earth with a curse. elijah also turned the hearts of the disobedient to the wisdom of the just and made things ready for the return of the lord. (living conditions) living conditions in israel and the world will become worse and worse; yet, two–thirds of the jews and much of the world will take the mark and worship the image. they will follow satan and the antichrist, even though it can clearly be seen the god of heaven working through moses and elijah is far stronger than the antichrist. as bad as the violence will be in the first part of the tribulation, the last part is far worse. violence will reach the point of being as bad as it can get. (the plagues and results of no rain) (plagues. terrible things torment the people) (locusts. first woe) as time passes during the last 3½ years, many more plagues will come upon people. some type of locusts that cannot be numbered will sting men with a sting like a scorpion. it will be horrible. people will be in agony. they will be several inches long. they come out of the bottomless pit. this is the first of three great woes. men will seek death and shall not find it. the locusts will not affect those that did not take the mark or worship the image. their faces resemble humans. they have long hair like a woman, and their teeth are long and sharp. they have a hard shell like iron, and their tails are like a scorpion. they swarm over all the earth. they are able to go over water and land. they do not hurt the vegetation. for 5 months, they will torment the people of the earth, then it will be over. two more horrible woes are yet to come. (sores) the world has already gone through a traumatic experience from the stings of the locusts for 5 months. then, all of a sudden, on the face of the whole earth—horrible, disgusting, grievous and painful sores begin to appear on all that take the mark and worship the image. it is as an ulcerated, ugly, and malignant sore. the pain will be intense. men will blaspheme the god of heaven, because of their pains and their sores; but they will not repent. moses and elijah are given power to smite the earth with all plagues as often as they wish. moses with aaron had brought this same plague in egypt against pharaoh. they had taken handfuls of ashes from a furnace and tossed it into the air. it became fine dust over all the land. it then became loathsome and malignant, ugly and painful sores—festering boils that broke out on people and even animals. (the oceans, the rivers, the fountains of water will no longer support life) moses and elijah will turn the seas so they will become as the blood of a dead man. they will no longer sustain life. every living thing in the sea will die. then the rivers and fountains will be turned to blood throughout the world. drinking water will be scarce and food more difficult to find. the blood of saints and prophets will be shed at the hands of many, and, in return, god will give them blood to drink. moses had done this in egypt also. he had stretched out his rod upon the waters of egypt, their streams, rivers, ponds, and pools. as a result, the people digged around the river for water to drink, for they could not drink of the water of the river. (the sun and heat) next there shall come heat. for a time, the sun will send forth intense heat. people are tormented. they are scorched or burned with fire. the people of the world will curse god and speak all manner of evil against the god of heaven, who controls these plagues. there is much blindness upon the people because of sin. (darkness and earthquakes) as time progresses toward the end of the tribulation, both the throne of the antichrist and his kingdom are plunged into thick darkness. israel was his kingdom, and the temple mount was his headquarters. the darkness is so intense that it can be felt. it is so thick that it is difficult to even move. the people cannot see each other. no light can penetrate it. the people still have their sores and are in agony. do the people repent? no. moses had brought darkness in egypt that had lasted for three days. earthquakes continue to increase both in number and intensity. (diseases) the spread of diseases will get worse. for some, there is no cure. this is one of the signs of the return of christ. sexual diseases keep increasing, as multiple sex partners keep increasing. epidemics will arise in various places, which will be hard to control, as people travel all over the world. (wars and rumors of wars and wild animals) nation will be against nation and kingdom against kingdom. there will be wars in households, between governments, and between people. many people will be hungry, but so will the wild animals. with the rains shut off, conditions will get worse. the animals begin attacking people. (a famine of hearing the word) (the seven last plagues) during the first part of the tribulation, the 144,000 will bring forth god’s word. then they will be gone. during the second part of the tribulation, there will be famine of hearing god’s word, except for moses and elijah. it is written, behold, the days come, saith the lord god, that i will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the lord: and they shall wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east, they shall run to and fro to seek the word of the lord, and shall not find it–amos 8:11. the second part of the tribulation will be a time when no man can work the works of god, except moses and elijah–ref jn 9:4. as the tribulation was draws to a close, god’s wrath comes through seven plagues. (the armies of the world begin assembling for armageddon) (the tribulation is nearing its end) the unclean, spirits of devils, that is, the spirits of satan, the antichrist, and the false prophet (like frogs) go forth to the kings of the earth to gather and assemble the armies of the world to the battle (or war of the) great day of god almighty. this is the war of all wars. it was to be fought in the valley of megiddo, jerusalem, and surrounding areas. this is called the battle of armageddon. the armies of the world did not know they were coming to fight against the return of jesus. rather, many were fighting against each other for a time. (china and the world) before the rapture, china began a great military buildup. with their new weapons of mass destruction and a massive number in their military, they become the dominant military force in the last part of the tribulation. the kings of the east, 200,000,000 strong, led by china, began their march toward israel. the mighty men of war, all over the world, will be awakened. their weapons will be prepared. they will say they are strong. they are coming to be slaughtered by jesus christ and his armies, but none will suspect this. (the advance) china had boasted publicly, even before the rapture, that they could put forth an army of 200,000,000. they will indeed put together such a military, which will include other kings of the east allied with them. these will head westward toward the euphrates river, and then on to israel. the army will be so large that it will stretch beyond the horizons. they will be like a line of ants that has no end and cannot be stopped. as they go forth, they will seem invincible. the kings of the east arrive at the river euphrates. normally, this great river wound some 1700+ miles southward to the persian gulf, and ranged up to about two–thirds of a mile wide. when they arrive, they will find the great river will be mostly dried up. this is because moses and elijah had caused the rain to cease about 3½ years previously. at this time, as a result of the weapons china will have?one–third of the world’s population will be killed. we call this ww4. the tribulation will be nearly over. the battle of armageddon is ahead. the kings of the east will continue to travel toward israel. a devouring fire will go before them. what will be left, as they pass through various areas, will be a desolate wilderness. their aircraft will leap over the mountains with a noise like the roaring of a forest fire. the nations will be in anguish at the sight of them. as they march, they will not break their ranks. (the world and israel’s condition) right up to the time of armageddon, people will be eating and drinking, getting married, and going about their lives not realizing the end of nearly all life on earth was only days away, and jesus was returning. israel’s condition will be terrible. their strong cities will be broken down. the trees will be withered. the fields will be wasted. the harvest will have perished. the seed will have rotted. the vines will be dried up. the animals will groan for water and pasture. fires will burn up much of the wilderness. (estimated population and numbers) the world population, at the time of the rapture, may be (plus or minus) seven and one–half billion (7,500,000,000). when the rapture comes, a very small number of people will be taken by the lord. it will be much lower than most think. this is because many profess they know christ, but in their fruits and works they deny him–titus 1:16. then, as a result of the russian–us war, twenty five percent of the world’s population will die. also an unknown number will be killed for their faith during the first part of the tribulation. this may leave under 5,625,000,000 people on the earth, including new births. also millions will be beheaded, who refused to worship the image of the antichrist, during the second part of the tribulation. others will continue to die from famines, various wars around the world, diseases, and from other things. then one–third of what is left of the world’s population will die, during the time the kings of the east come to israel. that should leave a world population of under 3,751,875,000 at the time of armageddon. despite all that will happen, the world will not repent. (the two witnesses of god are killed) it will be about 3½ days before the end of the tribulation. moses and elijah will be witnessing and prophesying for 1260 days. most of the world will reject their message. no one can kill them until their 1260 days are finished. the antichrist will then be able to kill them, as their time is up. their dead bodies will be left in the street of jerusalem where all can see, which is the same place where jesus christ had been crucified. it is as if the world wants to make sure no one will steal their bodies, and afterward say, they rose from the dead. so people all over the world will see their dead bodies. (the two witnesses come back to life. the world will be in shock) for 3½ days, the dead bodies of the two prophets will remain in the street—then, all of a sudden, the seemingly impossible will happen. precisely 84 hours after moses and elijah are killed, the spirit of life from god enters into them, just as prophesied. the two witnesses stand upon their feet. great terror comes upon those that see this. then they shall hear a great voice from heaven saying to them, “come up here.” then the two witnesses will go up in a cloud, while their enemies all over the world will watch. the laughing and giving of gifts suddenly stop. a deafening silence may come, as people are terrified. some people’s hearts will fail, as they consider what lies ahead. even though the world had been told that jesus will return, few probably believed it until now. some may began to scream, “no, no, it isn’t possible!” as soon as the two witnesses depart, there will be the first of 4 great earthquakes. each will be greater than the one before it. the first will be so great that a tenth of the city of jerusalem will lie in ruin, and seven thousand people will be killed. this adds to people’s fears. the temple the antichrist had occupied may collapse at this time. the world continues to blaspheme the god of heaven. “the tribulation ends” (the first of the 4 great earthquakes ends the tribulation) at the time of this great earthquake, the tribulation ends. the 1260 days, since the abomination of desolation happened, will expire. from the time the two witnesses ascend up, to the time of armageddon, will be a very few days; yet, about 92 major events should take place. the soldiers of the world’s armies may number between 250 to 300 million. they should stretch from the carmel mountains and megiddo eastward to the nearby jordan valley, and then southward all the way to bozrah, which is se of the dead sea. the total distance is about 161 miles the armies will also stretch up to the kidron valley (also called the valley of jehoshaphat, or valley of decision) which is around jerusalem. the world’s most advanced weapons will be there. the land will be full of gold and silver from the armies of the world. the power of the holy people had been broken. armageddon is on the doorstep, and jesus is about to return. the seventieth week of daniel 9:27 is ended. jerusalem’s spiritual condition is reflected by the words sodom and egypt. there will be no boundries or limitations to the sins of the people. every imagination of the thoughts of people’s hearts will be only evil continually as violence completely fills the entire planet. hatred without bounds will be everywhere. as it has been stated—if jesus had not returned at the exact time he does, there would be no one left alive. (few understand how very small israel really is) the shape of israel is approximately 263 miles long (or 424 km) and not very wide. it is slightly smaller than the state of new jersey in the usa. its narrowest point is about 12 miles. at 60 miles per hour, a person could drive across it in a straight line in about 12 minutes. the length could be driven in about 4½ hours. the second of the 4 great earthquakes will happen in the short period between the end of the tribulation and the beginning of the battle of armageddon. the clouds begin to grow thick. the sun begins to disappear. the moon becomes a reddish color like blood, and then disappears as the clouds increase. darkness begins to envelope the land. jerusalem is the center of the attack. all the nations are gathered against it. as the ruthless soldiers enter jerusalem, the light from the moon and the stars will be disappearing. the soldiers show no mercy. they take whatever they want. half of the city goes into exile, but the rest of the people are not taken out. the invaders will run around the city, and back and forth in the city. they will be numerous like ants. they enter the houses like thieves. the women are raped. the invaders of israel will cast lots for and sell the children of israel. a boy will be given for a harlot. a girl will be sold for wine, so they can drink. the third of the 4 great earthquakes occurs. armageddon will now be ready to explode. the mountains begin to move. volcanoes begin to pour out smoke and ash. there will be lightnings, voices, thunderings, and great hail. it could simply be said jesus comes back to the earth. the battle lasts 24 hours, few people are left alive, and then it is over. it is written: the heavens will roll together as a scroll. the great day of the lord is near. behold, the day of the lord cometh, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate: and he shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it. alas for the day! for the day of the lord is at hand. satan will put thoughts into people’s minds, and, as a result, man, in his pride, will believe he can fight against god, and win. there was silence in heaven. it will be about the space of (or what seemed like) half an hour. the battle of armageddon, at this time, is at hand. (jesus—the first time) when jesus came the first time, he came as a lamb to be slaughtered. he was tortured. his beard was ripped off his face. he was marred worse than any man. he was almost unrecognizable. he suffered an agonizing death. he did this to pay the price for the sin of every person that would repent and trust in him as their only hope of salvation. when jesus departed about 2000 years ago, two men stood by and said: ye men of galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. (jesus—the second time) approximately 2000 years after he was crucified and rose from the dead—jesus will return. however, this time, he will return as the king of all kings and lord of all lords. he will return in power and great glory to a world that will be so full of sin, rebellion, violence, and hatred that words cannot adequately convey it. since that time, those that follow christ have watched. titus 2:13–looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great god and our saviour jesus christ. the world will reject the god of heaven for the antichrist. technology and false knowledge had also replaced the god of heaven. even communion reveals the coming of the lord. it is written in 1 cor 11:26–for as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do show the lord’s death (till he come). the temple of god will open. heaven opened. his eyes will be like a flame of fire. on his head will be many crowns. he will be dressed with a robe dipped in blood. on his robe and on his thigh, there will be the name written: king of kings, and lord of lords. jesus christ is the only begotten son of god. the armies that were in heaven will follow him also on white horses. those that follow jesus will be clothed in fine linen, clean and white. “the battle of armageddon” regarding armageddon, there should be six parts. the first is when satan and his angels confront jesus returning in the air. the second is when the antichrist and false prophet are eliminated. the third part is when jesus arrives on the earth. his feet stand upon the mt. of olives. the fourth part is jesus on mt. zion. he defends jerusalem. the fifth is megiddo. the sixth and last part is the whole world. there are more verses of scripture in the bible regarding the battle of armageddon, than any other single event. (the battle of armageddon, part 1—in the air) (satan overcome) satan and his angels will meet the lord in the air, but will be overcome. he will be brought down to hell, to the depths of the pit. he will have a seal put upon him, so he cannot deceive the nations (or people) any longer. from the fall of adam and eve until this point, there has never been a time when the human race was free from being bombarded with evil, deceptive, lustful, enticing thoughts that were put in their mind by the devil; but they never understood this. neither do the churches teach it. a man might be angry with his children—then, all of a sudden, the anger is gone, as satan’s power to deceive is eliminated. when satan is in hell, those already there shall narrowly look upon him, and say: is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake kingdoms; that made the world as a wilderness, and destroyed the cities thereof; that opened not the house of his prisoners? as a result of satan having that seal put upon him, a most incredible thing will happen. suddenly, throughout the world, the multitude of wrong, evil, accusing, hateful, self–reliant and self–centered thoughts, everyone has had from their childhood, will be gone. one moment the armies of the world are confident. then, all of a sudden, they see things as they really are. terror will fill their hearts. the tamborines will stop. the harps will go silent. minutes before, the armies were prepared to do battle. now, they are terrified. they will have no leader to give them direction in their thoughts. and the great men, and the rich men, and the heads of armies, and the mighty men, plus both the free and slaves will hide themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains in the area of megiddo. they will want the rocks to fall on them and hide them from the wrath of jesus christ, as they will now know jesus will soon appear. they will say, “who is able to stand?” (battle of armageddon, part 2) (the antichrist and false prophet are destroyed) as christ returns, the antichrist will stand up against jesus, but will be broken by spiritual power. jesus will consume him with the breath of his mouth. the antichrist will be destroyed with the brightness (or splendor, or glory) of the coming of the king of kings. the antichrist and false prophet will be cast alive into the fiery lake of burning sulfur. they will go into perdition. once satan, the antichrist, and false prophet are eliminated, the armies of the world in israel will be in complete disarray. they will be confused. they will be terrified. fear will grip the earth. the power of satan to blind people’s minds will cease. as already said, this has never happened since the fall of adam and eve. (battle of armageddon, part 3) the total battle lasts 24 hours (the mount of olives first, then mt. zion) the sun is darkened, the moon no longer will give her light. then, the sign of the son of man will appear all over the earth. amazingly, somehow the people of the world will see the son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and (then) coming in the clouds of heaven. this will happen on the tenth day of the seventh month, according to the jewish calendar. this is usually in the month of september. it will be the fulfillment of the day of atonement. at the beginning of the day (which is the evening) jesus should return. the king of kings and lord of lords will return with fire and clouds, in power and great glory. thousands upon thousands of his saints will be with him. the day of the lord will be a day of darkness and not light. it will be a day of gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness. jesus will make darkness his canopy. the saints that will be with him will be called, and chosen, and faithful. he will come with his chariots like a whirlwind. as jesus returns, lightnings will encircle and lighten the entire world. many all over the world will instantly be killed because of the lightnings. the people of the earth will see and be terrified. every eye will see him. even those that had pierced him, about 2000 years earlier, will see him return. he will come in flaming vengeance against those that know not god, and against those that do not obey the gospel. jesus has total power over all the forces of nature, including the wind, storms, lightnings, hailstones, and tidal waves. there will be much crying in jerusalem and megiddo. he will silence the speech of the wicked. the cursing of the name of the lord ceases, for they that did such things will be perishing. as already said: if jesus had not returned at the exact time he does, no life would be left on planet earth. god did not spare sodom and gomorrah because of sin. god will not spare the earth, during armageddon, because of their sin. and god will not spare you, because of your sins, if you do not repent. zech 14:4–7–and his feet shall stand in that day upon the mount of olives, which is before jerusalem on the east, and the mount of olives shall cleave in the midst thereof toward the east and toward the west, and there shall be a very great valley; and half of the mountain shall remove toward the north, and half of it toward the south…but it shall come to pass, that at evening time it shall be light. (battle of armageddon, part 4) (mt. zion) then jesus will come down to mt. zion, which is just southwest of the old city in jerusalem. the people will look upon jesus, whom they had pierced. they will cry bitterly, in the same way one cries over their firstborn son. in that day, the weeping in jerusalem will be great. the lord saved the dwellings of judah first, so that the honor of the house of david and of jerusalem’s inhabitants would not be greater than that of judah. as birds flying, the lord defended jerusalem, passing over, he preserves it. all that choose to fight against jerusalem are cut to pieces. their flesh will rot away, while they stand on their feet. their eyes will rot (or disintegrate) in their sockets, and their tongues will rot away in their mouth. in the day of the lord, the lord's people will be strong. jerusalem will remain intact. judah also will fight at jerusalem. then the battle at judah and jerusalem will be over. the enemies of the lord will be destroyed. (battle of armageddon, part 5) (meggiddo and israel) jesus saves israel next. the day of the lord will be very dreadful. who can endure it? the greatest weapons of mass destruction ever created by man will be in the valley of megiddo. as the morning comes, there will be a great people, both upon the mountains of israel and the area stretching from the hill of megiddo all the way to bozrah, about 161 miles. the kings of the earth are gathered. the grapes (or people) of the earth will be cast into the “great” winepress of the wrath and fury of god. it is written: rev 16:16–21–and he gathered them together into a place called in the hebrew tongue armageddon (or har megiddo). this was also referred to as the great winepress. note: mount megiddo is a tel, which is a hill with 26 layers of ruins from ancient cities. its height varies. it is app. 115 feet high and covers app. 15 acres. it sits on the edge of a vast plain, known as esdraelon, or the jezreel valley. this fertile farmland of northern israel extends to the jordan valley and then curves southward. the top of the hill is somewhat flat with excavations from various time periods, dating back thousands of years. it provides an excellent view of the valley for a long distance. the large valley will be filled with the armies of the world. hundreds of millions of soldiers will be there and cover an area of about 161 miles long, extending southward along the jordan valley to bozrah. what happens next is almost indescribable. the soldiers will be as fully ripened grapes ready to be crushed. then they will be crushed. their blood will come out. there will be a sea of blood (as the bible describes) to the reins of the horses, as far as the eye can see, even about 161 miles. in that day a man shall cast his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, which they made each one for himself to worship, to the moles and to the bats. isa 2:21 niv–they will flee to caverns in the rocks and to the overhanging crags from dread of the lord. jesus had said: i have trodden the winepress alone; and of the people there was none with me: for i will tread them in mine anger, and trample them in my fury; and their blood shall be sprinkled upon my garments. rev 14:20–and the winepress was (trampled) (outside) the city (which is, jerusalem), and blood (flowed) out of the winepress, (rising)even unto (or as high as) the horse bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs (or approximately 161 miles or longer). it is written: rev 15:4–who shall not fear thee, o lord? the noise of the lightnings, and thunderings, and of the earth quaking will be so loud, that the screams of the millions dying may not be heard. then, the huge hailstones also begin to fall. each should weigh 70 to 100 pounds. nothing will be able to deliver the multitude of the unrighteous in the day of the lord. sin will be removed from the land in one day. everything will be brought low. fire will go before jesus. it will burn up his enemies on every side. people will be screaming for fear, hoping they might some how be hid from christ, and from his anger and fury. the mountains will melt like wax before the lord. (the fourth and last of the 4 great earthquakes) then the fourth and last of the great earthquakes occurs. this will be the greatest since mankind has existed. it will come to pass during the battle of armageddon. the great city of jerusalem will be divided into three parts. it will be world wide. the earth shall shake and be transformed. (this should be covered in more detail under the heading of armageddon worldwide.) finally, the battle for israel will be over. hundreds of millions will be dead. few will be left alive, except those god had chosen to repopulate the earth during the millennium. two–thirds of the jewish people will be cut off and die. one–third will be protected by god and go into the millennium. so it is that all israel shall be saved. the birds will be summoned to the supper of the great god. they will eat the flesh of kings, and generals, and of captains. they will eat the flesh of all that are dead. (the great battle of the lord is worldwide, part 6) (the battle of armageddon and the entire planet) the last part of the battle includes the entire earth. but in that day, the lord will hold up the right hand of those that are his, that is, those that had not taken the mark and worshipped the image. he will help and protect them. the oceans will be the buriel ground for those that are in ships and submarines. when jesus speaks, things come to pass. the entire planet will be like a winepress, and the people like grapes that are ripe for the harvest. throughout the earth, the noise will be loud and terrifying. (fire) * with fire, the earth and people will be burned. the lord with flaming fire will take vengeance on those that do not obey the gospel. he comes with flames of fire. he will utter his word. he speaks, and fire goes forth before him. he will rain fire and brimstone on the wicked. he will judge the earth. his enemies are burned. his tongue will be as a devouring fire. his fury will be poured out like fire. the foundations of the mountains will be on fire. the mountains will quake, and the hills melt; and the rocks will be thrown down. all the earth will be devoured with the fire of his jealousy. people are consumed, but they do not take it to heart. the earth is being cleansed. who can endure the fierceness of his anger? whirlwinds will also arise from the coasts. there will be hurricanes, tornadoes, monsoons, cyclones, and every form of windstorm known. they will explode upon the scene and upon the heads of the wicked. there will be huge hailstones, lightnings and thunders. great clouds and darkness will be everywhere. great cracks in the earth will open up and swallow everything in their path. huge waves from the oceans will drive inland for long distances, obliterating everything in their path. the destruction will be catastrophic! jesus will thrust in his sickle. the earth is reaped or harvested. from one end of the earth to the other, the people are cut down. the king of kings and lord of lords will make an end of all places where the hebrews had been taken. then, it happens. the fourth and last of the 4 great earthquakes. this will be the greatest since mankind has existed. it will come to pass during the battle of armageddon. the entire earth will shake. all mountains will be made low. they will be swallowed up. the great mountain ranges will cease to exist. the valleys will rise, and few people will be left alive. then the earth will move out of her place and turn upside down. there are no adequate words to describe it. who is it that says they will not fear the lord? people will try to hide, but there is no where to hide, or no place of safety. hiding places will become coffins. the cities of the world will disappear. in that day, the earth will be moved exceedingly, and the light of the moon will be much brighter. the light of the sun will be seven times brighter, like the light of seven full days. the battle of armageddon is over * god’s enemies submit. in that day, only jesus christ is exalted. the people that survive will move out of their holes like worms. they will greatly fear. the birds will be called to gather, from around the world, to eat the flesh of the dead bodies. however, many of the dead will be swallowed up by the earthquake. (the results) the kingdom of the antichrist will not be found. the earth will be at rest. the earth will be at peace. the earth will be cleansed. fire purifies. the pride of man will be gone. it will cease. upon every high hill, there will be rivers and streams of water. there will be no trace of all the previous kingdoms. (the eastern gate) the eastern side of the gate had been sealed. the western side had not. inside of the gate is a large room, which had been used at times by the arabs as a classroom. when jesus returns, he will enter the temple mount through the east gate. the earth will shine with his glory. oh, that man could understand these things before they happen, and before they perish; but they will not fear the lord. (the judgment of the nations–ref mt 25:31–46) the elect will be gathered. those left alive will be gathered and judged. those that followed christ will be on the right, and those that took the mark and worshipped the antichrist will be on the left at the judgment of the nations. those on the left will be cast into the lake of fire. this generation (the generation of the rebirth of israel) passed away it is written, lk 21:32–verily i say unto you, this generation shall not pass away, till all be fulfilled. when israel was reborn on may 14th, 1948, the generation of the fig tree began. this generation that began with israel’s rebirth will not pass away, until armageddon is over, and the elect are gathered. the scriptures say in ps 90:10–the days of our years are threescore years and ten (or 70 years); and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years (or 80), yet is their strength labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. here is even more proof that cannot be denied. it is written: when thou art in tribulation, and all these things are come upon thee, even in the latter days–ref deut 4:30. israel’s rebirth was the beginning of the latter days—may 14, 1948. the period from this event to jesus’ return should not exceed a generation (70 to 80 years). the verse just stated the tribulation is also in the latter days. thus, we believe, the tribulation should be complete before 80 years expires. it will be soon. 2 cor 5:11–knowing therefore the terror of the lord, we persuade men. (the 1000 year reign of jesus christ) the seventh and last feast is the feast of tabernacles. this begins on the fifteenth day of the seventh month for seven days. this represents the beginning of the coming state of rest called the millennium. jesus christ begins his reign on earth for one thousand years, as the king of kings and lord of lords. the tabernacle of jesus will be among men. (again, this event will be fulfilled exactly on the correct day.) the twelve apostles will reign over the twelve tribes of israel. the world will be at peace. the world will love the jews. all that return with jesus will also reign and rule. some will be over tens, some over hundreds, some over thousands, some over cities. are you ready to meet jesus? we have proven the bible is god’s word. now you are faced with a decision. you may say, “my church doesn’t believe this.” you must decide. will you believe god’s word (the bible), or what your church teaches, or what other people may say? what do you have to do to be saved? four things. 1. admit that you are a sinner. the bible tells us, all have sinned and come short of the glory of god. the wages of sin is death. 2. be willing to change, forsake all sin, humble yourself and live for jesus—repent. god will help you. it is written, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. jesus tells us, he that is not with me is against me. 3. believe in your heart jesus christ is god’s only begotten son, who came to this earth in the flesh, in human form. believe he died for your sins. it is written, there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. 4. ask for forgiveness. ask for god’s mercy. by faith, receive jesus christ as your only hope of salvation. i am going to ask you to make that decision for jesus right now. please kneel right where you are. god may be calling you. don’t resist. the bible tells us, there is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. it’s not a matter of if you think you know jesus, but does jesus know you? right now, humble yourself, kneel and pray this prayer out loud and mean it. dear jesus, i am a sinner. i believe you are the son of god and died for my sins on the cross. forgive all of my sins. jesus, i repent. have mercy on me, a sinner and come into my life. help me to follow and obey your word (the bible). i ask it in the name of my lord and savior, jesus christ. amen. if you just said that prayer and meant it with all your heart if you repented and asked jesus to be your lord and savior, please email us immediately. we would like to pray for you. if you send us your postal mailing address, we would like to send you some free literature. if you do not receive a reply from us within 2 weeks—email us again. there have been some problems with some emails getting through. now, you need to begin reading your bible every day faithfully—5 or more chapters. start with the gospel of john. read it through three times. next go to matthew, and read the new testament three times. then read the entire bible in order, from genesis to the revelation. be a doer of the word and not a hearer only, deceiving yourself–ref ja 1:22. find a good, bible–teaching church that believes god’s word and baptizes by full immersion. they should also love israel and the jewish people. don’t be trapped by reading things “about” the bible. read “the bible,” which is god’s word. yes, there will be many things you will not understand at first. but if you are faithful in reading god’s word that will change. don’t get distracted with this or that bible study in the beginning. as newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby–1 pe 2:2. be baptized by full immersion in the name of the father, and of the son, and of the holy ghost–col 2:12; mt 28:19; ro chapter 6. tell others that jesus is your only hope of salvation. never be ashamed of jesus in any way, even when it comes to praying over your meals. sprinkling and infant baptism means nothing. any baptism done prior to repenting and believing in jesus christ is no baptism at all–ref acts 2:38; ro 6:1–10; col 2:12; mt 28:19. a big mistake many make is they do not immerse themselves in god’s word. they say they want to follow jesus, but they do not read and study his word. to follow jesus is to read, follow, and obey the words of jesus. many chapters should be read every day faithfully. a person that does not read god’s word faithfully, is usually a person that had not repented. to love jesus is to love and obey his word. if you decided to put off surrendering to jesus, consider this. there was a certain man who said to his preacher, “don’t worry about me, i will come to jesus in the 11th hour.” time after time, he would come to his preacher and repeat these words. then one day, he did it again. “don’t worry about me. in the 11th hour, i will surrender to jesus.” then the man left the preacher’s office. shortly after, the preacher heard a terrible crash. he ran outside and found the man lying dead in the street after being hit by a car. a person said to the preacher, “he didn't know this day was his 11th hour.” if you have read this far, chances are good god is calling you. beware of thoughts in your head from the devil, saying, “you cannot be saved, because of…this or that,” or “you’re just no good.” the blood of christ is greater than all your sins. all scripture is given by inspiration of god, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness–2 tim 3:16. heb 10:31–it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living god. “will i go to heaven?”     many are positive they will go to heaven when they die. many are positive they will be raptured when that occurs. however, the bible states clearly (of that number that believe they are saved) only a few, a very few really are saved by the grace of god.     we are currently living in the laodicean church age–rev 3:14–21. this is the church age that will witness the rapture, but all lukewarm christians will be left behind. their spiritual condition is wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked. in nearly every case, this describes your church and probably you. at best, you are probably lukewarm.     want proof? mt 7:21 many think they are saved, but are not     not every one that saith unto me, lord, lord (or thinks they are saved), shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my father which is in heaven–mt 7:21.     the will of god is that a person repents, and then follows repentance with water baptism by full immersion. as it is written, repent and be baptized everyone–acts 2:38. the will of god is that a person diligently studies the bible–mt 11:29, and then afterward obeys it. it is written: he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him–heb 5:9. and hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments–1 jn 2:3.     the will of god is that you serve god. as it is written, mal 3:18–then shall ye return, and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth god and him that serveth him not. lk 4:8–jesus…said…thou shalt worship the lord thy god, and him only shalt thou serve.     these accepted jesus as their savior, but perished, as they did not do the will of god.     but few will do this. mt 7:22,23–many will say to me in that day, lord, lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? and then will i profess unto them, i never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity. these accepted jesus as their savior. these also served god; however, they did not repent as is required. they perished. mt 25:1–13 many think they are saved, but are not     mt 25:1–13–reveals ten christians. five were wise. five were foolish. they were all waiting for the rapture. then at midnight (israeli time), a cry was made behold the bridegroom cometh. go ye out to meet him.     when jesus returned to rapture the born again christians, the five that had their light still burning were taken.     however the other five had let their light for christ go out. they were not taken. these foolish christians had stopped following christ. they sought jesus to open for them, but jesus told them, i know you not.     god’s warning to all that belong to him is this. obey god, follow him, and watch for his soon return. following jesus and obeying his word is required. lk 6:46–49 many think they are saved, but are not     jesus asked the question: and why call ye me, lord, lord, and do not the things which i say? why do people think they are saved, when they will not study and obey the gospel. lk 6:46–49 study and obey god's word. the only foundation that will stand     lk 6:47,48–whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and doeth them,…he is like a man which built an house, and digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock: and when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently upon that house, and could not shake it: for it was founded upon a rock. lk 6:49–but he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that without a foundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house was great. a person that does not build upon god’s word, when the difficulties arise, they will crumble. lk 13:23–28     then said one unto him, lord, are there few that be saved? and he said unto them, strive (or work hard) to enter in at the strait gate: for many, i say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able. many will perish. note, many will perish.     when once the master of the house (which is jesus) is risen up, and hath shut to the door (meaning when the rapture has occurred and it is over), and ye begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, lord, lord, open unto us; and he shall answer and say unto you, i know you not whence ye are. note those left behind call jesus their lord. they were positive they were saved, yet were left behind. then they begin to make excuses. then shall ye begin to say, we have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets. but he shall say, i tell you, i know you not whence ye are; depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity. these had called on jesus to be their savior, but they had not repented. they had not given up all their sins. they had not followed jesus as is required. they had not devoured god’s word and obeyed it. there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see abraham, and isaac, and jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of god, and you yourselves thrust out.     will you go to heaven? you must repent, and not go back.     you are commanded to be baptized by full immersion afterward. you are to repent and be baptized everyone.     then you need to begin to devour god’s word, as if it is more necessary than your necessary food. as you do this, your faith should grow; and by faith, a person overcomes this present world. then you are to obey god's word. you are to deny yourself and pick up your cross and follow jesus. you are to die to yourself daily. jesus is to be not only your savior, but also your lord and king. do these things, and you shall live. compromise, and you may expect to perish. closing     1 jn 2:15–17–love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. if any man love the world, the love of the father is not in him. for all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the father, but is of the world. and the world passeth away, and the lust thereof: but he that doeth the will of god abideth for ever. list of all 365 prophecies–click here 