bbc - homepage accessibility links bbc homepage   numerous russian advances repelled in donbas - uk ukraine's allies pledge more arms to help win war pm sorry for party as labour calls apology a joke why the future of micronations is bright the bizarre plot that tricked hitler news deadly blasts target kabul school for boys netflix in first loss of subscribers in ten years india's poorly-paid riders risking lives to deliver food sport 'good luck erik - man utd have become a monstrosity' liverpool loss 'humiliating' - man utd boss rangnick salah scores twice as liverpool outclass man utd lagos weather tue wed thu fri india's ancient martial art feared by the british raj the surprisingly dark world of having free will the dangers of a 'brazilian butt lift' africa news nigerians sharing ‘school sex tape’ face 14 years africa live: kenyan teachers call for a return of caning 'i converted my bicycle into a motorbike' foreign currency shortage stalls olympic hero reward editor’s picks the parents inventing new surnames the grim tale of the "skeleton queen" australia's trail where life began the forest tended by an elusive giant the sex myth that destroys lives make uranus mission your priority, nasa told 'how i designed costumes for game of thrones and the crown' latest business news india tv show proves entrepreneurship isn't just for rich uk forecast to have slowest growth in g7 next year p&o sacks agency workers who broke alcohol rules 'i begged my dad not to give out business cards' sri lanka requests urgent financial help from imf what would happen if we stopped mining? the world's most polluted capital city the mangrove that defied destruction technology of business does knowing where our food comes from matter? advertisement new economy boom time for dog walkers, sitters and trainers featured video climate change, albinism and me climate change, albinism and me storm eunice topples trees and rips roofs seagulls beware! the dogs keeping chips safe 'i begged my dad not to give out business... a family reunited after being separated by... boris johnson struggles in interview ready for the total solar eclipse? koalas 'face extinction' in parts of... video 'shows mosul mosque's destruction' indonesia's female 'devil wheel' riders injured falklands veteran and nurse reunited nurse speaks out over forced adoptions one-minute world news watch: flames and smoke cover lviv building irish travellers say racism is causing a... bbc world service more around the bbc watching tv to be allowed in self-driving cars 'i felt more joy than i thought possible' 'people fear for their jobs if they report bullies' us judge throws out biden's traveller mask mandate 'i begged my dad not to give out business cards' coral reefs mapped to tackle climate change threat composer sir harrison birtwistle dies aged 87 from our correspondents key un climate finding widely misinterpreted by matt mcgrath why are texas truckers in five-hour traffic jams? by anthony zurcher do we finally know the cause of multiple sclerosis? by james gallager james webb telescope instrument goes super-cold by jonathan amos mutations across species reveal clues to ageing by james gallager professor snorkels over tonga volcano by jonathan amos shock particle result could spark physics revolution by pallab ghosh 'first dinosaur fossil linked to asteroid strike' by jonathan amos technology of business what are people doing to cut heating bills? new tech economy the chip implants that let you pay with your hand world in pictures reflective moments and unusual views africa's top shots: celestial bodies, pastries and greens whip-wielding demons kick off easter in el salvador memorial to lost children wins global photo contest africa's top shots: prayers, pastries and portraits bbc in other languages hausa arabic swahili somali more languages explore the bbc  russia's ability to progress continues to be beset by logistical challenges, a british analysis finds. two blasts outside a high school in the afghan capital killed at least six people and wounded 20. the firm lost 200,000 members in the first three months of the year. the bbc followed overworked delivery riders as they raced against time to take food to customers. erik ten hag's impending arrival as manchester united's new manager should be a cause for celebration - but the overriding emotion will be sympathy. manchester united interim manager ralf rangnick says the 4-0 premier league defeat by liverpool at anfield was "humiliating". liverpool move top of the premier league as they outclass manchester united and dent the visitors' hopes of a top-four finish.  26°c 33°c 23°c 32°c 24°c 32°c 24°c the most amazing videos from the bbc the authorities issue a warning after a video alleged to involve schoolchildren goes viral. they want to be tougher on pupils who misbehave and reassert their authority - and more stories. student adewale made his dream of owning a motorbike a reality after converting his own bicycle. ethiopia's gold medallist, solomon barega, says he is yet to receive a car promised by the authorities. a baby taking the father's last name? it's not that simple anymore inês de castro, the portuguese monarch crowned after death the mountains here forced scientists to rethink earth's geologic time scale across africa's rainforests, formidable giants are helping curb climate change it's centuries old, but still believed around the world an influential panel of scientists wants to see a mission to the solar system's seventh planet michele clapton is responsible for some of the most recognisable costumes in tv and movies solutions for a sustainable world coco shares her experience of living with albinism in nigeria. mobile phone use while driving will remain illegal, as changes to the highway code are announced. yadda ƴan bindiga suka kashe wani ɗan kasuwar kano bayan sun karɓi kuɗin fansa تعهدات بإرسال المزيد من الأسلحة إلى أوكرانيا للمساعدة في صد الهجمات الروسية vikosi vya urusi vinashambulia eneo lote la mapambano mashariki mwa ukraine muxuu yahay qorshaha guddiga doorashada heer federaal ee gaaray garbahaarrey? skip to content accessibility help home news sport weather iplayer sounds bitesize cbeebies cbbc food home news sport reel worklife travel future culture tv weather sounds home news sport weather iplayer sounds bitesize cbeebies cbbc food home news sport reel worklife travel future culture tv weather sounds numerous russian advances repelled in donbas - uk russia's ability to progress continues to be beset by logistical challenges, a british analysis finds. europe numerous russian advances repelled in donbas - uk ukraine's allies pledge more arms to help win war europe ukraine's allies pledge more arms to help win war pm sorry for party as labour calls apology a joke uk politics pm sorry for party as labour calls apology a joke why the future of micronations is bright future why the future of micronations is bright the bizarre plot that tricked hitler culture the bizarre plot that tricked hitler deadly blasts target kabul school for boys two blasts outside a high school in the afghan capital killed at least six people and wounded 20. asia deadly blasts target kabul school for boys netflix in first loss of subscribers in ten years the firm lost 200,000 members in the first three months of the year. business netflix in first loss of subscribers in ten years india's poorly-paid riders risking lives to deliver food the bbc followed overworked delivery riders as they raced against time to take food to customers. india india's poorly-paid riders risking lives to deliver food 'good luck erik - man utd have become a monstrosity' erik ten hag's impending arrival as manchester united's new manager should be a cause for celebration - but the overriding emotion will be sympathy. football 'good luck erik - man utd have become a monstrosity' liverpool loss 'humiliating' - man utd boss rangnick manchester united interim manager ralf rangnick says the 4-0 premier league defeat by liverpool at anfield was "humiliating". football liverpool loss 'humiliating' - man utd boss rangnick salah scores twice as liverpool outclass man utd liverpool move top of the premier league as they outclass manchester united and dent the visitors' hopes of a top-four finish. premier league salah scores twice as liverpool outclass man utd tue 26°c wed 33°c 23°c thu 32°c 24°c fri 32°c 24°c india's ancient martial art feared by the british raj the surprisingly dark world of having free will the dangers of a 'brazilian butt lift' nigerians sharing ‘school sex tape’ face 14 years the authorities issue a warning after a video alleged to involve schoolchildren goes viral. africa nigerians sharing ‘school sex tape’ face 14 years africa live: kenyan teachers call for a return of caning they want to be tougher on pupils who misbehave and reassert their authority - and more stories. africa africa live: kenyan teachers call for a return of caning 'i converted my bicycle into a motorbike' student adewale made his dream of owning a motorbike a reality after converting his own bicycle. africa 'i converted my bicycle into a motorbike' foreign currency shortage stalls olympic hero reward ethiopia's gold medallist, solomon barega, says he is yet to receive a car promised by the authorities. africa foreign currency shortage stalls olympic hero reward the parents inventing new surnames a baby taking the father's last name? it's not that simple anymore worklife the parents inventing new surnames the grim tale of the "skeleton queen" inês de castro, the portuguese monarch crowned after death culture the grim tale of the "skeleton queen" australia's trail where life began the mountains here forced scientists to rethink earth's geologic time scale travel australia's trail where life began the forest tended by an elusive giant across africa's rainforests, formidable giants are helping curb climate change future planet the forest tended by an elusive giant the sex myth that destroys lives it's centuries old, but still believed around the world future the sex myth that destroys lives make uranus mission your priority, nasa told an influential panel of scientists wants to see a mission to the solar system's seventh planet science & environment make uranus mission your priority, nasa told 'how i designed costumes for game of thrones and the crown' michele clapton is responsible for some of the most recognisable costumes in tv and movies bbc three 'how i designed costumes for game of thrones and the crown' 1 india tv show proves entrepreneurship isn't just for rich 2 uk forecast to have slowest growth in g7 next year 3 p&o sacks agency workers who broke alcohol rules 4 'i begged my dad not to give out business cards' 5 sri lanka requests urgent financial help from imf what would happen if we stopped mining? the world's most polluted capital city the mangrove that defied destruction technology of business business does knowing where our food comes from matter? does knowing where our food comes from matter? advertisement new economy business boom time for dog walkers, sitters and trainers boom time for dog walkers, sitters and trainers recommended most watched latest climate change, albinism and me africa climate change, albinism and me storm eunice topples trees and rips roofs uk storm eunice topples trees and rips roofs seagulls beware! the dogs keeping chips safe australia seagulls beware! the dogs keeping chips safe 'i begged my dad not to give out business... business 'i begged my dad not to give out business cards' a family reunited after being separated by... london a family reunited after being separated by war boris johnson struggles in interview uk boris johnson struggles in interview ready for the total solar eclipse? us & canada ready for the total solar eclipse? koalas 'face extinction' in parts of... australia koalas 'face extinction' in parts of australia video 'shows mosul mosque's destruction' middle east video 'shows mosul mosque's destruction' indonesia's female 'devil wheel' riders asia indonesia's female 'devil wheel' riders injured falklands veteran and nurse reunited wales injured falklands veteran and nurse reunited nurse speaks out over forced adoptions uk nurse speaks out over forced adoptions one-minute world news video one-minute world news watch: flames and smoke cover lviv building europe watch: flames and smoke cover lviv building irish travellers say racism is causing a... europe irish travellers say racism is causing a suicide crisis watching tv to be allowed in self-driving cars mobile phone use while driving will remain illegal, as changes to the highway code are announced. technology watching tv to be allowed in self-driving cars 'i felt more joy than i thought possible' science & environment 'i felt more joy than i thought possible' 'people fear for their jobs if they report bullies' entertainment & arts 'people fear for their jobs if they report bullies' us judge throws out biden's traveller mask mandate us & canada us judge throws out biden's traveller mask mandate 'i begged my dad not to give out business cards' business 'i begged my dad not to give out business cards' coral reefs mapped to tackle climate change threat science & environment coral reefs mapped to tackle climate change threat composer sir harrison birtwistle dies aged 87 entertainment & arts composer sir harrison birtwistle dies aged 87 key un climate finding widely misinterpreted by matt mcgrath why are texas truckers in five-hour traffic jams? by anthony zurcher do we finally know the cause of multiple sclerosis? by james gallager james webb telescope instrument goes super-cold by jonathan amos mutations across species reveal clues to ageing by james gallager professor snorkels over tonga volcano by jonathan amos shock particle result could spark physics revolution by pallab ghosh 'first dinosaur fossil linked to asteroid strike' by jonathan amos technology of business what are people doing to cut heating bills? business what are people doing to cut heating bills?  new tech economy the chip implants that let you pay with your hand business the chip implants that let you pay with your hand reflective moments and unusual views in pictures reflective moments and unusual views africa's top shots: celestial bodies, pastries and greens africa africa's top shots: celestial bodies, pastries and greens whip-wielding demons kick off easter in el salvador latin america & caribbean whip-wielding demons kick off easter in el salvador memorial to lost children wins global photo contest in pictures memorial to lost children wins global photo contest africa's top shots: prayers, pastries and portraits africa africa's top shots: prayers, pastries and portraits hausa yadda ƴan bindiga suka kashe wani ɗan kasuwar kano bayan sun karɓi kuɗin fansa arabic تعهدات بإرسال المزيد من الأسلحة إلى أوكرانيا للمساعدة في صد الهجمات الروسية swahili vikosi vya urusi vinashambulia eneo lote la mapambano mashariki mwa ukraine somali muxuu yahay qorshaha guddiga doorashada heer federaal ee gaaray garbahaarrey? arabic عربي azeri azərbaycan bangla বাংলা burmese မြန်မာ chinese 中文网 french afrique hausa hausa hindi हिन्दी indonesian indonesia japanese 日本語 kinyarwanda gahuza kirundi kirundi kyrgyz кыргыз marathi मराठी nepali नेपाली pashto پښتو persian فارسی portuguese brasil russian на русском sinhala සිංහල somali somali spanish mundo swahili swahili tamil தமிழ் turkish türkçe ukrainian українськa urdu اردو uzbek o'zbek vietnamese tiếng việt home news sport weather iplayer sounds bitesize cbeebies cbbc food home news sport reel worklife travel future culture tv weather sounds terms of use about the bbc privacy policy cookies accessibility help parental guidance contact the bbc get personalised newsletters advertise with us adchoices / do not sell my info